---
date: May 5th, 2021
order: 002

---
# Land of Spirits

As Petr stares into the eyes of the troll, it immediately reacts, but can’t really go anywhere as it’s tightly strapped into this place. Back in the den, all the dreamers suddenly sit up straight. Their eyes are completely misty and the others can see rotting teeth as their mouths are agape. “That doesn’t seem normal,” Beck comments, as Rydia notices that the voices in her head completely stopped. She tells the others she can’t hear them anymore, just as all the halflings in unison say “I have arrived at vermishard six, master. What would you have me do?”

Beck immediately recognises vermishard; the City of Metrol was built around these large stone pillars, seven in total. On top of them were palaces of the royal family of Cyre and several palaces of dragonmarked houses; these were the most exclusive places in Metrol. He knows vermishard six is near the river, and it contains one of the many palaces of the royal family of Cyre; the Wynarn family.

He shares this with the others, as Rydia points out they can all hear the voices now. D4 asks what the vermishard six is, to which Beck explains some more of what he knows. All the halflings are looking at the table, though there doesn’t seem to be anything of note near the table. Beck does know that they seem to be staring in the direction of Cyre, though notably, not exactly in the direction of Metrol, which Beck knows to be more to the north.

D4 walks up to one of the halflings and pokes them in the shoulder; they don’t seem to react. Beck suggests that maybe he tells them to do something, so D4 asks them to dance, and stand up. “I am already standing. I could dance,” the halflings say in unison. D4 asks for a name and the voices say “I am Teraza’s Eyes”. They claim to be just one person.

Beck asks who their master is, to which they say they don’t know his name. “He has a growling voice.” D4 asks why he’s their master, and the voices say he tells them where to go and where to look. “I am at vermishard six,” the voices repeat. Beck asks if that even exists anymore, and they say they’re looking right at it, claiming they’re on top of vermishard six, near the western wall of the palace, in Metrol.

They claim it’s safe there, though it’s misty. “Why are you there?” Beck asks, and they say they’re looking for the defector’s papers. When asked who the defector is, they say they don’t know. They just know they’re looking for a bundle of papers, hidden behind a brick. When asked if anyone else is there, all the halflings seem to look around in unison, before saying they think they’re alone.

“What are you?” Beck asks, and they say they don’t know exactly. Rydia asks how many eyes they are, which they also don’t know. D4 asks what a Teraza is, to which they say this is what the master called them. Galen asks where they met the master. “Behind a bar, in Gatherhold.” They’ve since been to five vermishards already, so this was a little while ago.

This is when Petr storms into the room, announcing he found a troll, soon realising what he just walked into as things seem rather tense. D4 says he’s confused, wondering if this person knows who Beck is, as he’s from there. Beck instead asks if they remember what their master looks like. “He had long hair and a big snout. He looked like a wolf.” When asked if they’re willing doing what they want, they say they don’t mind being here. “I wouldn’t mind either,” Beck admits, to which they say he can join by just asking for a hit.

Meanwhile, Galen realises that he’s read about the name Teraza before. He knows that the Daask in common means ‘the Monster’s Eye’, and they’re a criminal organisation originally from Sharn, though they’re bankrolled by Drooam. He’s heard some rumors that they’re governed by three women, called the Daughters of Sora Kell. He thinks Teraza might be one of them.

Looking around the room, he then picks up on what sounds like a muffled scream from the other side of the room. The cavern they’re in is solid rock, but one part of it in the back has a number of piled up crates and he thinks that’s where the screaming is coming from. He points this out to the others, so he and Beck go take a look. They move past the entranced people, still staring at the table, the muffled screams becoming louder as they move to the other side.

They start moving some crates to the side, revealing a narrow round hole, just big enough for a halfling to crouch through, which is filled with webbing. Halfway through there’s a cocoon of sorts, which is where the screaming is coming from. Beck reaches in, managing to pull the cocoon out, removing some of the webbing to reveal a ornately dressed halfling.

Those who have already met him recognise councilman [[Anders Solomar]], who asks the group what the hell they’re doing here. “We were delivering a message,” Beck shares, to which D4 asks what Anders is doing here. “Receiving a message of sorts,” he says, getting up and pushing the webbing away from himself.

Both Beck and Galen then notice that the webbing is moving, Beck suggesting they should cover the hole again, so they start moving the crates again. “I have too many bruises, I do not want to get into a fight again today,” Galen points out, helping Beck move back the crates as they find themselves eye to eye with a large spider. The spider tries to attack Beck in the process, but it misses and Beck and Galen still manage to get the crates in front of this entrance in time, blocking off the hole. One thick hairy leg still tries to claw at them, but the spider can no longer get to them.

Anders is relieved they came along, Galen asking him how long he’s been stuck in there. He thinks it was a couple of hours. D4 points out it looks like he was gonna be someone’s lunch, to which Anders explains he thinks it was just a scare tactic, but he wouldn’t have known what to do if they hadn’t been there. He goes on to say he said no to their ‘ridiculous’ plans of wanting to overtake the Jackdaws operations, with his approval and him bankrolling them. They had some other requests as well, but Anders says he heard enough about these people to know he didn’t want to get in bed with them. They then resorted to violence before he could get ample security around himself.

Beck suggests they should get out of here, turning to Petr to ask if he found a way out. The captain points out she did find a way out, “There’s a couple of boats back there, we could take one or two?” The others agree, deciding that going out the front door might be too risky.

The captain leads the way. There’s about eight boats moored at these docks in this watery cavern. It looks like a decent enough smuggling operation. They notice that one of the piers doesn’t contain a boat, and they also spot the bags of silverware. Beck uses Detect Magic to see if there’s anything out of the ordinary in there, finding an emblem of the Silver Flame as well as a small burlap pouch containing two healing potions.

Meanwhile, D4 takes a look at the boats, trying to determine which is the sturdiest. They’re all relatively simple boats, though one of them is in a bit better shape than the others. The oars all seem to be made out of metal, so they don’t deteriorate as fast. Galen asks about the troll then, wondering if they were wanting to let the troll go. Petr explains how he found the troll, and how the troll looked somewhat scary and so he just closed the door. He mentions the meat as well.

D4 knows that the nation known as Drooam is welcome to all monster’s creed and is very open to using monsters for their talents. Very adamant about putting people in the right places. He thinks trolls are one of the main ways to do so; they are technically an endless supply of meat, because of their regenerating abilities. This set up with the troll seems quite common in Drooam.

Beck suggests they could take a look and maybe spring it, Galen and Rydia say they’ve got this covered and head to find the troll. As they do so, D4 and Beck take a look at the silverware, asking the captain if they should bring some of the silverware. They agree to bring some of it, realising they can bring about four of the bags. D4 starts loading up the bags as Beck moves somewhat into the hallway, hoping to keep an eye on both groups in case something goes wrong.

Galen and Rydia walk up to the door behind which the troll is, from behind which they can hear the troll’s tormented screams. Galen pushes the door open, revealing the troll who is strapped in really tight. Six straps her arm and leg, one giant buckle over his midsection and there’s a knife circling around both his arms, repeatedly cutting off flesh which drops down into buckets below.

“Do you want to let him go?” Rydia asks, Galen saying he wants to ask if it wants to be let go. Rydia notes that the meat below is tainted, toxic even; they’d need to treat this meat in order to make it edible. She then suggests she can try and talk to the troll telepathically, which she then does. “Do you want to get out of here?” she asks. The troll stares at her, trying to answer back normally in Giant, which they can’t understand.

Despite the language barrier, Rydia can still deduce the troll seems hurt in its pride that he’s being asked this. He seems to think he’s doing his duty here. She tells this to Galen, so they leave the troll there, heading back towards the others.

As they’re untying the boats, getting ready to leave, both Galen and Petr hear footsteps and then voices coming from the room above. Urging the others on, they all get into the boats, pushing them off the shore and onto the lake. They can barely hear a “what the fuck happened here?” from the other side of the wall as they move away, rounding the bend before anyone can get to the storage room.

They start rowing towards the north, the kinetic energy of their oars making the water around them glow as they row through it. North seems the safer choice, as it means they won’t pass by where they just came from, and right now, everyone seems in favor of the safer option.

The journey back is pretty quiet as first, then the rain comes in, leaving everyone somewhat uncomfortable. Anders addresses the captain on the way back, asking her if she had any chance to discuss his proposal with her merry band here. “Actually, when I tried to tell you that something had come up, you weren’t there, so I left a note with one of your clerks. We may need to postpone our mission with you,” the captain says, though she also points out that their current mission seems to be completed already. She looks at the rest of the crew, saying they still have some days left to see if they can squeeze this one in.

D4 suggests that it wouldn’t hurt if they were away from Gatherhold for a few days after what just happened, which the others do agree with. Anders notices Damned, asking what the hell is up with her, to which D4 says he doesn’t know. He then says he doesn’t know what the Daask will do next, but he hopes they stuck it to them good. D4 points out there’s still some webbing on Anders, trying to process some of it, but he can’t deduce much about it.

Eventually, they reach the shore to the north side of town, finding there’s not much going on in this area of the town. There’s some drunken halflings to be heard in the rain, some scuffles going on, but other than that, it’s mostly quiet. They’re near the crevasse they first parked the airship at, noting that whilst the harpy’s body from Galen and Rydia’s encounter is still there, but the orc’s body seems to have disappeared.

As they’re heading back in town, Rydia changes back to her normal self. They discuss where to go; Galen and Rydia pointing out they have a room at the hotel, Beck pointing out they’ll likely be staying at the airship. He welcomes them to stay there as well, pointing out it’s not quite as luxurious as the hotel. Rydia points out they could get them a room at the Golden Dragon as well, Anders piping up and saying he can help with that as well. The airship crew decides they wouldn’t say no to some luxury, taking them up on the offer.

Anders starts leading the way towards the hotel and as they get closer to the center of town, they walk by a couple of friendly fights that have broken out. One fight looks a bit more scary; a group of halflings seem to have surrounded another one, assailing them. As they get closer, the airship crew recognises Yasseem, the rider of Banana Candy. The people around him seem upset that he pulled Banana Candy out of the race today, saying they placed their bets on him.

D4 flies his Zoomer up towards Yasseem and Beck walks up as well. Yasseem recognises them, pointing at them as he says “It was them, they were the ones who stabbed Banana Candy,” to which Beck is quick to point out that’s not what happened at all. Some of the group turns to Beck, asking him what did happen. “Well you see, there was a harpy and it charmed the poor dinosaur. Coincidentally, this harpy stole some of your silver perhaps, which we just happen to have brought back with us…” Beck gestures behind him, asking for D4 to bring some of the silver over, which successfully calms down the crowd and distracts them.

They move away from Yasseem and towards the bags, looking through them, soon fighting over some of the silver instead. Soon after, they disperse, leaving Yasseem looking at the group. “I’m sorry for getting you mixed up in this, that’s awfully nice of you to give these people their silver,” he says, to which Beck points out it wasn’t their silver to begin with. Beck checks in with Yasseem, asking about Banana Candy as well; both of them seem to be doing okay.

Yasseem says that Banana Candy might still participate in the last day of the races, which will be in five days. He then turns around, thanking them again before walking off.

Galen asks what they did to the poor dinosaur, Beck explaining it was the harpy, who charmed the dinosaur who attacked them first. Rydia points out she’s fairly sure these people didn’t own this silver, which Beck dismisses, saying it worked well enough. He then says they’ll try not to stab any more dinosaurs.

They reach the hotel soon after, heading inside. Galen and Rydia retreat for the night, Anders arranging rooms for the others. The halfling behind the desk asks if there’s anything special they need to know, asking if they’re foreign diplomats. The group clearly doesn’t look like they are, but Beck still offers a ‘clearly’. Both the captain and Petr get their own room, Beck suggesting D4 can power down in his room if he wants. They’re all escorted up to the fifth floor then, finding their ways to their rooms.

The beds look soft, everything is clean; this is certainly a step up from the airship. The captain soon excuses herself, saying they’ve all earned their rests tonight. “We’ll discuss over breakfast what we want to do next,” she then says. Everyone else retreats to their rooms as well then.

In their room, Galen turns to Rydia. “So are we gonna have that talk now?” She asks him what he wants to talk about, and Galen almost drops it before Rydia asks him what he wants to know. Galen says he has questions, but probably not many she can answer. “When you said you were fine this morning, I didn’t expect… this,” Galen says. “I thought fine meant…” Rydia finishes his sentence with “back to normal”.

“I think this is the best I’ve got for now,” Rydia says. Galen says he’s missed talking to her, to which Rydia says she’s missed talking. “So this is good. Really I’m delighted, I just didn’t expect to see you eat somebody.” Rydia says she hopes the way this works is that this is sort of compartmentalising. Galen then points out the mind reading, which is a new thing. Rydia says it’s not all the time; “Sometimes I just know what you’re thinking because I know you really well.”

She then says she’s learning, still trying to make sense of all this. Both being this again and being the other thing. Galen assures her he’s not going anywhere, and that they can figure this out together. “Hopefully when we get near Q’barra that might give us some answers.” He then promises not to die on her, which Rydia clearly appreciates. “Maybe you should be the one looking after me instead of the other way around,” Galen suggests, with Rydia saying that it should probably be a mutual arrangement.

With talking out of the way, things soon fade to black.

As everyone’s falling asleep, Galen finds himself having trouble dozing off. He’s twisting and turning, the surprisingly loud sound of the rain keeping him awake. As he’s lying on his back, he suddenly sees seven masked people stepping into the room. The walls change as well, looking like deep red curtains. The masked people wear white robes that gently turn into the same deep red of the curtains. The masks show featureless faces without noses. They begin to chant whilst standing around him: “do na rim.”

As the chanting reaches its crescendo, the curtains ripple like fluid; he realises these aren’t curtains, it’s blood. Galen realises he’s dreaming, unsure of how much time has passed. This realization comes with images that rapidly follow each other in succession. He sees hairy individuals bathing in the radiant light of a paladin, a swamp somewhere, he sees cities filled with strange creatures, dust in the air. Massive stone buildings being turned by massive aurrochs, harpies that fly in the air, mid song, calling others in for work shifts. He’s seeing the complete life and times of the people who recently got killed around him, with intermittedly, the chanting continuing in the background.

He feels like he’s running, an immense sense of fear in his chest and eventually, he instinctively stops and stares into a deep ravine. He hears the chanting one more time, then awakes and it’s morning.

The captain, Petr and D4 are already having breakfast downstairs as Beck, Galen and Rydia join them. There’s a large number of Talenta dishes served at breakfast, fresh fruits, bacon, as well as dishes that aren’t native to the plains. D4 asks what they’re planning on doing after this, the captain suggesting that earning some more money as well as getting out of town for a little while might be a good idea.

The airship crew agrees that they’re most interested in the job involving the artefact on the train, though they think they can squeeze in the Krezent job inbetween as well. D4 then asks what Galen and Rydia were planning on doing, to which Galen says they were mostly looking for a way out of town. “Orryn may have a proposal for y’all if we go back and see him,” he adds.

The captain also mentions the train job to Galen and Rydia, sharing some of the potential missions they were given the previous day. “Apparently in five days time, a couple of Aundarians will add two carts to the train; they’re apparently moving something from the Mournland to Fairhaven and we’ve been tasked to figure out what it is.” She suggests they could use the airship to get these goods of the train. She also shares that this artefact was made by a famous architect belonging to House Cannith.

D4 points out he thinks he was created by House Cannith as well, though it was likely someone working for them, as dwarves don’t tend to carry the Mark of Making. Galen then shares some more about the job Orryn was going to propose. Orryn has an interest in exploring some ruins near Q’barra. He thinks there might be something valuable up there, he was willing to fund the expedition there so they can return something decent for him.

Galen says he has a little bit of experience with finding things in ruins. D4 mentions the job Anders had for them, before Beck asks if Orryn had a timeline. Galen says he doesn’t know; they were interrupted by the Daask showing up. Beck knows that, whilst Q’barra is a wild and untamed region of the land, it also contains New Throne, a city founded by refugees and pioneers, trying to set up a new Cyre.

Finishing their meal, they head towards the Salty Hag to meet up with Orryn. They find him there alone, the rest of the place empty. Even Grekk isn’t there. As soon as they enter, Orryn stands up, greeting them happily. “Boy did you deliver. Best investment of my life. I had no idea you were going to torch the place … Excellent work!” Clearly the group is very aware they didn’t torch the place, but they run with this, Galen confirming they indeed did that.

Orryn is pleased, happy he won’t be seeing them for a while, though Galen warns that they can’t be sure they dealt with all of them. He hands the airship crew the other half of their payment, handing Galen his promised share as well.

He then goes on to tell them why he wanted them here, saying his buddy Galen has some information about an ancient ruin in Q’barra called Haka’torvhak. They don’t know the exact location, but they might know in Q’barra. “What I’d like to do is sponsor a mission for you to go to New Throne, find a guide and get over to that place as soon as possible.” He thinks there’s many interesting things to be found there, but he has no idea how to set this up money wise.

The captain says that is one thing, but it’s also quite a trip for them to make. “We’re not saying no, but we have some calculating to do on what kind of costs we would be making.” She looks at Petr, telling him they’d have to set a course and figure out what kind of rations to buy. She also asks Orryn if they’re going over there to rob a tomb, or a city; what is it we’re after?

“The term we prefer is adventurous archeology,” Rydia says, “We’re not grave robbers.” Galen points out he is actually an archeologist, to which the captain apologises, saying she’s simply curious as to what they’re hoping to find there. Galen points out it’s part of the fun that you don’t know, though Beck points out they could just as well find nothing. D4 asks if they might find new parts for his legs, to which Galen says they could probably figure something out.

Orryn says he has great trust in Galen’s ability to find shiny stuff. “Rydia and I have found a lot of things, we had a lot of money at some point. We even fought a dragon once,” Galen says, which Rydia confirms. The two continue to embellish some of the things they’ve done, which is obvious to Beck. “I trust that the person who went down twice fighting a wererat, did much better fighting an actual dragon,” he says, after which the captain jumps in, apologising for Beck’s burn before saying they’re definitely interested in this job.

“We’d have to agree upon a price, so we need to discuss this first. Am I correct to assume you don’t just want us to take them there as passengers, you want us to work together?” she then asks Orryn, who confirms this. Orryn says they’re welcome to take whatever time they need to discuss, he’ll be here in the mornings to hear a proposal. “For now just, absolutely smashing job getting rid of these fuckers. Well done.”

The captain gathers her crew around her, saying that this all seems like a big commitment. She’s fine with this, but wants to still find out what’s being transported via that lightning rail. Beck agrees. “Before we do anything, let’s do that,” the captain suggests, after which Beck suggests they could possibly still look at Krezent as well. D4 says they could do the job for Orryn after the others jobs, which the others agree with.

On the other side of the room, Galen asks Rydia if they’re really going to get on this train. “They mentioned Fairhaven, I’m not looking forward to heading to Fairhaven,” Rydia says. She says she lived in Fairhaven, her parents are in Fairhaven, she says she’s not ready for that, which Galen says he’s not either. “I’m not ready for them to murder me when they find out ..”

Galen says if they want the others to take them up to Q’barra, they’re probably going to have to deal with this. Rydia suggests they simply stay on the train until it gets back here, Galen agreeing they don’t have to head into the city, pointing out they wanted to intercept the train before it even got to Fairhaven anyway. “If we’re lucky, things will simply go our way,” Galen says, followed by him pointing out he hasn’t felt particularly lucky lately.

Rydia mentions he’s already been burned once today, glancing over at Beck as she says she thought it was a good burn. Galen asks Rydia how she feels about these people, to which Rydia points out that D4 hurt Galen, which she has opinions about. Orryn comments on Galen and Rydia’s weird dynamic before leaning back, seemingly feeling comfortable.

Over on the other side of the place, the captain asks if they want to linger around in Gatherhold for a little while, or if they want to try and go to Krezent after all. Beck is in favor, thinking it’s a good thing for them to get out of Gatherhold for a while, also pointing out that Anders should already like them considering the fact they saved his life.

“We can split up from here to get the ship ready, get everything in working order. I don’t mind having the two of them joining us if they like; they were saying they needed a way out of town, correct?” The captain says, which Beck confirms. She comments on how the food Rydia made was really good, Beck pointing out that if they do come with, it’ll give them some more time to figure these people out. “So we tell Orryn we’ll do the job, but after the other two jobs?” Beck suggests, to which the captain agrees, saying that’ll give them time to prepare more properly, figure out a flight manifest and whatnot.

“You’re making us sound so much more organised than we are,” Beck points out, and the captain says one learns to bluff their way through various things. She suggests she and Petr go meet up with Anders to get more details on their mission whilst Beck and D4, along with Galen and Rydia, get the ship ready. She then gets up, sharing all this with Orryn, who seems pleased they’re happy to take on this mission.

She then turns to Galen and Rydia, asking if they’re interested to come along on their mission to Krezent. “If we’re gonna be working together a while, I think that anything that helps the working relationship will be helpful,” Galen points out, agreeing to come along. The captain and Petr then take their leave, heading out to go talk to Anders.

Beck, D4, Galen and Rydia head out to get some supplies. Rydia stocks up on supplies, before meeting up with Galen and Beck at the one store in town that sells studded leather armor called ‘Studded Leather Armor R Us’, all three of them purchasing some, Beck also buying a shield. D4 and Beck also head out to grab some extra supplies for fixing up the ship, just so they’re prepared.

Beck also takes some time to look over the emblem of the Silver Flame he found, deducing there’s a one time use spell in there of Protection from Evil and Good.

Within an hour or two everyone’s ready to leave, meeting up at the airship again. The first leg of the journey is pleasant, the plains below them gliding past. It’s a beautiful landscape, there’s weird trees standing in the middle of nowhere with flattened foliage providing shade, massive herds of creatures and the wind begins to pick up. The strong back wind helps them speed travel up, and they realise they should be arriving by the next morning.

As night comes around, everyone gets ready for bed. The captain asks D4 to retreat for a moment, wanting a moment of peace on deck, but just as D4 leaves, Galen joins her. He notes that she seems to want to be left alone, so he apologises, saying he won’t be long.

He compliments the crew, the captain telling him that they are. She then mentions Rydia, complimenting the food, but saying the everything else is quite a lot. “So how did you wind up with this thing?” Galen then asks, meaning the airship. The captain explains she commandeered it after her crew was being held captive, and we escaped. She says Beck was there too. They were held captive by a couple of people who weren’t very friendly towards House Cannith. Karnathy soldiers.

When Galen asks about her and Beck being from House Cannith she denies this, describing them more as hired guns. He then asks how they got this ship from the Lyranders, the captain explaining that the old ships don’t require the Mark of the Storm. “This ship doesn’t have any elementals, it just has a big dragonshard and soarwood.” She admits it’s a bit slower, and in Sharn and Fairhaven it’ll be seen as a glorified bus, but it works for her and the crew.

Galen then says that all he really wanted to say is that he’s used to pulling his weight, and he’s happy to help out around the ship where necessary. He then heads back to bed and after taking a moment for herself, the captain eventually goes to find D4, who takes over the watch from her.

As she goes to bed, D4 positions himself behind the helm, powering in down whilst still keeping an eye out. He’s unaware of most things going on around him; Galen however, does notice a strange sound in the middle of the night. He wakes up Rydia, pointing out the noise to her. “Is that normal airship working noises or is it something I should worry about?” Rydia says it doesn’t sound normal, so Galen gets out of bed, heading into the hallway and finding the closest door to him.

He knocks on Beck’s door, who wakes up with a confused “what”. Galen explains he’s hearing a weird sound and he doesn’t know what it is. Beck gets out of bed, asking Galen to point him to where it is, so shirtless Galen and wearing-only-pjs Beck head down to check out the noise. As they descent the stairs, they realise the noise seems to be coming from the engine room of sorts, underneath the dragonshard.

“That might be a problem,” Beck points out, telling Galen the crystal keeps the ship afloat and if something’s trying to get to it, that’s bad. “Do I need to go get Silence?” Galen asks, before explaining that’s his gun after Beck looks at him in confusion. Beck says that sure, that might be a good idea, before walking into the engine room, Rydia and Galen joining him after Rydia puts on some clothes and Galen grabs his gun.

The sound seems to be coming from the outside of the ship, like something’s trying to claw their way into the ship. Beck tries to look out through one of the port holes to see what’s going on, but it’s dark out and so he can’t see much. He does realise that the sound seems familiar; he knows they’re over the desert and he knows that there are these strange beetles that live there, that are attracted to magical energy. They are called Mana Bane Beetles.

Looking over at the dragonshard, Beck tries to figure out if they can power it down to turn off the magic, fairly certain that they’d remain afloat if they did that. He goes to find D4, running this theory by him after telling him what he thinks is going on. The two of them also see a swarm of these beetles now, floating around the ship.

D4 suggests fighting the beetles for a moment, Beck saying he hopes they can just turn off the dragonshard so the beetles are no longer interested, which would avoid any conflict as well. D4 says he’ll keep an eye on the capacitors as he goes down to pull the dragonshard from it’s special plateau surrounded by copper circuitry. The engine powers down as they lift the dragonshard and the sound of the beetles immediately starts to die down.

As soon as this happens, Beck can sense the ship being taken more by the wind than before, holding on to the helm to try and keep the ship on course, which he manages to pull off. The vastness of the Blade Desert sparkles in the moonlight beneath as the swarm of beetles retreats, moving away from the ship. After about an hour or so, they figure it’s safe to place the dragonshard back and they continue their journey.

They soon find themselves approaching Maerin, the tent city that Anders told the captain they should visit before they head to Krezent. The tent city is located near an oasis and some Dhakaani ruins, and is meant to contain a couple of survivors of the mining accident. They see a mountain range in front of them, before they spot a large crude building next to an oasis, signalling they have arrived in Maerin.

The captain orders the anchor to be lowered, but before they head down they make time for some breakfast, Rydia preparing something nice for everyone. Below, they can see various ornately clothed individuals walking around, many of them wearing turbans and brightly colored robes with a lot of gold accents. Part of the city are tents, some of them are shacks with a tent attached to them.

After breakfast, the captain suggests they go and have a look around, wanting to see if they can find out any information about what happened in Krezent. She tosses the ladder down, saying she’s fine with some of them staying behind on the ship, but she’s heading down herself to find out more information. D4 points out he wants to see if the ship’s okay, Beck staying back to help him with that as well.

Beck can’t see much, but D4’s Zoomer is able to get in close, taking a good look at the damage done to the ship. It seems to be minimal, just some scratch marks, but D4 still takes the time to fix things up, suggesting to Beck that maybe they should look into somehow protecting the dragonshard against attacks like this in the future. He knows that maybe lead will help block the magical energy, he says he’ll look into it.

Rydia and Galen join the captain down in the town, looking around. There’s some halflings here, but most notably there’s a lot of elves here. They tend to cluster around a large group of horses that are grazing near the oasis and they are darker skinned, all of them have immaculate beards with pointy tips and all of them wear jewellery. They look annoyingly perfect as they’re conversing amongst themselves.

Looking around the market, the captain spots a part tent, part shack, that has a sign out front saying ‘the Bored Armadillo’. She suggests to Galen and Rydia they take a look at the watering hole, see if they can find some information there. She explains to Galen they’re looking for survivors who might know what happened in the mines.

They head inside, smelling the sweet scent of cactus water and a heavier scent of strong liquor. There’s four patrons inside even this early in the day; one is slouched over the bar and another that stands out is one that has a massive sabretooth tiger with him. Behind the bar there’s an older looking halfling with a thick grey mustache, low rim flat hat, smoking some tobacco. He greets them by tipping his hat and nodding at them.

Galen and Rydia head to the bar, where the bartender greets them. Galen says they’re here looking for some information, mentioning the mining accident. The bartender points at the woman slumped over the bar, saying she survived it, before saying he’s from Krezent as well, but he left before the accident. “Who wants to know?” Galen says they’re in business with someone who wants to know what happened.

“I don’t know much, I left before it happened. My wife died and I left after that, the mining accident happened after that.” He does know that people have been disappearing from Krezent, even after the mining incident. They don’t know what happened, but that’s why people think it’s haunted. He doesn’t know much more; he got out before it all happened.

Rydia asks if the woman on the bar has seen any of it, after which the bartender nudges the woman, who complains about just wanting to sleep. The bartender grabs a bucket of water from behind the bar, splashing her in the face with it, which wakes her up. She’s human, large hat on and a really thin cigar that’s now completely wet. She spits it out, glaring at the bartender as she looks like a drenched cat. “What the fuck do you want, Lukani?”

The bartender explains that these people want to talk to her, so she turns to Galen and Rydia. Galen apologises for disturbing her, saying he didn’t quite expect the bucket of water. She then asks what she can help them with, after which Galen asks her about the mines. Right as Galen asks her, Rydia uses Detect Thoughts to see what she’s thinking. She mostly just seems upset about needing to talk about the mines.

“Can you at least buy me a drink?” she asks, which Rydia does, ordering a round of drinks for the woman, Galen and herself. “You sure about that? The Ancestor’s Teethsmacker is not for everybody” the bartender points out, to which Rydia asks him what the drink is called. He repeats the name, then puts two small glasses on the counter. He sprinkles some salt on the bar, crushing the rims into the salt before he pours out this heavily scented liquor, yellowish in color. He slides the glasses over to the woman and Galen, the former downing it immediately.

Rydia sips her cactus water as Galen downs the drink as well, which seems to impress the woman. She then introduces herself as Astra Vorn, Galen introducing himself in turn. Galen then tells her what they want to know, asking about the mines. She says that not everyone left when the mine collapsed, some people stayed behind, trying to make the best of it. The halflings left because they were and still are superstitious. They tried mining, but people kept disappearing. First only in the mine, then everywhere.

“You’d be walking with someone in the town, just talking; one moment you’d look the other way and then gone, they’d be missing.” Galen asks her if she saw that happen; Astra explains that the only reason she likes Lukani is because they both had their wife gone missing in some ways. “His died, I still have good hope that mine is out there somewhere …” After which she corrects herself, saying she doesn’t really have any hope anymore.

Rydia digs deeper with her Detect Thoughts, finding that she is indeed somewhat of an alcoholic, and she doesn’t feel all too good in that moment. She is telling the truth, and Rydia senses a deep feeling of grief inside of her, as well as a massive sort of darker region filled with fears about just suddenly looking over and not seeing her wife anymore.

She gets the feeling Astra saw something right before it happened. There’s some form of trauma there. Rydia nods to Galen, as Astra realises that someone was just probing her thoughts, which she grumbles about. “You can’t just buy a girl a drink and then just probe her mind like that,” she says, looking right at Rydia, who says that in her experience, that’s usually how it works. Rydia then says she’s telling the truth, before asking Astra about what she saw.

Astra’s face changes as she says that yes, she did see something. Rydia asks her to share what she saw. “It was just this … when you sense this deep creeping darkness, this utter sense of dread, don’t be fooled. Keep an eye on each other. Seemed like I was lured away mentally to some extent,” Astra explains.

From the other side of the bar, Galen and Rydia suddenly hear the captain raise her voice, though she’s speaking in a language they don’t speak. It sounds like she’s standing up for herself, facing off with the man that was petting the massive sabretooth tiger. The man stands up, saying in common “Ah, you came from the noble land, but you turned your back on the Darkwood crown. A traitor to the traditions, then.”

Galen is familiar with the Darkwood crown, knowing it to be what the Valenar elves refer to as their leader. This man seems to be an elf, ready for battle. Galen also knows that Valenar elves are in tune with the martial traditions and have perfected the art of combat and have also cultivated the art of animal husbandry and training. This elf is looming over the captain, seemingly bullying her and Galen knows that generally speaking, the elves here seem to be dicks.

They see humans as pets, to occasionally make babies with, and half-elves are seen as the geeks that follow them around, trying to stay in their footsteps. Galen and Rydia watch as the captain puts her hand on her crossbow, and the sabretooth tiger starts to growl…
