---
title: Dreaming Den
date: April 28th 2021
---

# Session 01

It’s only when they properly take in their surroundings that Petr, D4, Beck and Fianin realise just how big of a mess they seem to have walked in on. It looks like a gore fest, with blood everywhere. The goblin they met the night before is putting his sword away, the bugbear’s fur seems moist with wet blood and the two humanoids look somewhat scared and confused.

Galen and Rydia are in turn met with the sight of a dwarven-sized warforged, a human man with a bit of a beard, a clean-shaven human man with his hair pulled back, and a half-elven woman. “According to my calculations, something’s up here,” D4 points out, as Petr confirms this looks different than what they expected. Beck asks if everyone’s alright as Rydia turns to Galen, telling him they’ll talk about this later before turning towards the others who just walked in.

D4 turns to Beck, saying this doesn’t quite look like a party, and Rydia confirms that this really wasn’t planned; they ran into some trouble. Meanwhile, the barman is still cowering behind the bar, whilst the bugbear dusts himself off and turns his attention to the group. “Excuse the mess, these fuckers have been attacking us for eh … well this is the second time this week isn’t it, Grekk?” He turns to the goblin, who confirms this.

“These were the people I was telling you about,” Grekk then says, to which the bugbear says that he already figured that out; “I’m not a dummy.” He tells them all to make themselves comfortable, assuring them they’ll be quite safe here. “Irwin, can we get some drinks?” As he turns to the barman, he tells the bugbear the shut the fuck up. “I told you not to fight, I told you not to kill anybody,” he says, and Rydia and Galen offer to take care of drinks instead.

Grekk gets a table ready, pulling up some chairs, gesturing at Beck, D4, Petr and the captain, offering for them to take a seat. As D4 asks for some fish guts, the barman says that he cleared him out before.

The bugbear sits down, leaning back as he apologises to the group, saying they’ve just been attacked and he knows exactly by who. “I’m afraid they’re the same people you were delivering something to.” He says he had his people look into what they were shipping, and says that simply cannot happen. He’s prepared to offer them something for their shipment, but offers they get to know each other a little better before they get in business together.

“My name is Orryn Tullen, I run the Jackdaws, we basically maintain the docks here in Gatherhold, after most of the trade with Cyre dried up.” Petr asks if they were attacked by the orc and the minotaur guy they were supposed to deliver their goods to, Orryn says they weren’t attacked by them specifically, but by their organization. He says this other organisation wants to take over their lucrative business deals.

“So where do we come in then?” asks Petr. Orryn says he’s not quite sure what the group’s dealings are with the Daask, but they aren’t exactly good news. He then says he heard they’re shipping some warforged for them, which Beck neither denies nor confirms. “I’m prepared to make you a very good offer, but with a simple caveat.” He says most of his forces are out in the Mournland looking for trinkets for Mourners, and he gestures towards Beck. Beck knows to be a somewhat derogatory term, but Orryn doesn’t seem to mean it in a bad way.

“Now, if we have a bunch of warforged doing that for us, it would prevent my people - mainly goblins - from getting sick.” He doesn’t want his main competitor to have a private army. Beck points out that it doesn’t seem like a good thing for him and the others to start something with this Daask group; they were paid up front and it would seem dishonest to come back on that deal.

Orryn asks how much money they were paid up front, with Beck saying it was 700 gold, which the captain confirms. “We’d have to repay them, wouldn’t we?” she says. Orryn says this is where the other part of his proposition comes in. He offers to buy the warforged for them for their original price; since you already have a downpayment from the others, he suggests they make it a profit and use it to deliver a message to the Daask. “I need people to show them that the Jackdaws still have teeth, but like I said, most of my men are out of town. This time, they came directly for me.”

Grekk seems to have questions about whether or not this is smart, but Orryn doesn’t seem to want to hear it. Orryn still seems upset about having gotten attacked. D4 turns to Beck, reminding him that the Dugorim didn’t seem interested in the warforged, which Beck confirms, though elaborating that the orc said he was going to check with his superiors. Petr says that taking Orryn’s deal doesn’t seem like a bad idea, though Beck points out that it seems like a bad idea to start something with the Daask, especially when they seem to be pretty dangerous.

“See, that’s where things get interesting. I feel I’m giving you a good deal here, and an option to actually make more money than you bargained for with them,” says Orryn, adding that his price will go down if they weren’t interested in paying the Daask a visit. He then turns their attention to Rydia and Galen, saying he’s sure that, with the right payment, they’ll be able to join the others in this visit to the Daask. “I wanted to introduce you to each other anyway, because I have another thing that I think might be interesting for all of you, but this takes definite precedence.”

D4 turns to Petr, saying he likes these guys better than Dugorim and his horny friend, to which Petr agrees. “This seems like much better company.” He says they should take Orryn up on his deal, as Beck asks Orryn what kind of message he wants them to deliver. “The violent kind.” The captain asks if they’re sure they want to get into trouble; she says this is a group vote, and points out they do have another option for taking a job from their politician friend. Beck points out that either way they need money, and either way they need to resolve things with the Daask one way or another.

The captain suggests they take their time between now and their appointment with the Daask later to scout out the location and prepare. She then turns towards Rydia and Galen, asking them if they’ve been to the Glowing Kipper already. Galen says they might’ve seen it a few times, but they’re not super familiar with the place. She then turns to Orryn, asking if Rydia and Galen are coming with.

Orryn walks up to the bar, leaning over the bar towards them. “This was a fucked up fight, the second one this week. But they came after me. I pulled you into Gatherhold, I’d like you to do this for me. Help them out, maybe see if we can get the whole Q’barra thing going ..” Galen confirms that Orryn wants to know if they can trust them, which Orryn confirms. Rydia Both Galen and Rydia agree to this, with Rydia saying she’ll just get them their drinks as Orryn pulls out a piece of paper, writes something down on it. He slips it over towards Galen. 300 gold is written down on it and he says to Galen they can use it to get paid later. He then thanks the both of them for their help.

He then turns around, big smile on his face. “Well, looks like we’re all together now,” he says, as D4 interjects with some questions. He asks how many men the Daask have, to which Orryn says that they have one contact within the organisation, who goes by the name of Asharra. She’s the star of their main act at the Glowing Kipper, called Asharra and the Five Feathers. She hasn’t told Orryn how many people there will be today, but they might be able to catch her there and talk to her.

He does know they have a couple of ‘those shifting motherfuckers’, wererats, as well as the massive minotaur, Plucky. D4 turns to Beck, asking if he thinks they can handle that, to which Beck says it might be easier to say after they take a look around the Glowing Kipper, and suggests there might be another approach. D4 then asks about the dragonshards, and Orryn turns to Grekk, who pulls out a yellow crystal from a pouch. “This one is worth about a 100 gold, something you were looking for, I believe … I’m in a good mood. We’ll toss this one in.” Grekk shakes his head in disagreement, but tosses D4 the pouch anyway, who is grateful for it.

They then take the time to introduce themselves, D4 taking the lead. “My name is D4, I’m a D-model, I was made made somewhere in the Mournland. Who might you be?” He extends his hand towards Galen and Rydia. Rydia introduces herself as well, saying she’s not sure what it is D4 drinks. “I’m from up north, and I’ve been travelling with Galen here for a while.”

Galen introduces himself as well, “Galen D’Arcy is the name, sorry, I got punched in the head a couple of times today.” He confirms he and Rydia have been on the road for a while, ended up here, though he wouldn’t mind being back on the road again. D4 says he agrees, though they’ve been on the air roads, to which Galen and Rydia point out they’ve also seen the airship coming down.

Petr points out that the seventeen warforged they’re selling don’t include D4, which Galen says he figured. D4 says he’s the repairman, which is why they still need him. Galen then asks if they have an orc on their crew, with Beck pointing out that’s a strangely specific question, but he doesn’t ask anything else. Instead, he introduces himself, as well as Petr and the captain.

Reappearing from the back, Grekk places a sack of coins on the table, which the captain opens up, counting 70 platinum pieces. “This is the downpayment,” Orryn says, saying he’ll gladly send Grekk and a couple of other men with them later to go to their ship to unload the goods. He asks if the warforged are functioning, Beck tells him they’re derelict warforged, so they’re not functional. He does also suggest they can fly the ship over towards the warehouse, to save everyone a number of trips.

Orryn says the money should also cover any ingots they need, which Beck confirms. Orryn and the captain shake hands, Orryn saying that this is an introductory thing. He asked them to come over for something else, but he now wants to see how this goes and how these two groups work together. Galen says he and Rydia can work with anyone, Petr saying that he and his lot are pretty easy-going as well.

“Any of you going to throw a ship’s anchor at me?” Galen asks, to which Beck says they don’t usually throw those at people. Rydia apologises for Galen, as he’s usually more sociable, to which Beck points out he likely wouldn’t be very agreeable either if he was hit in the chest with an anchor.

They then discuss what the plan is, agreeing that staking out the Glowing Kipper seems like a good idea. The captain suggests that they do get the ship fixed before tonight as well. She also asks about the other meetings they had, making sure they’re not taking the contract that Anders offered them. Beck suggests they could still use the money, to which the captain suggests she can go to both Anders and Rosevyr to ask for an extension on these contracts.

They agree to split up and meet back up at the airship in a while. D4 and Petr head out to find the ingots and repair the ship, as the captain goes out to meet with Anders and Rosevyr again. Beck joins Rydia and Galen for staking out the Glowing Kipper ahead of time.

Before they leave, Galen seeks out the barman that ran into the back not too long ago. He finds him in an office of sorts, located next to the bar, with a closetful of ledgers in there, and a small desk. He’s head down, face dire, drinking from a heavy thick glass of Scotch. “Sorry, I think we owed you money for the drinks,” Galen says as he walks in, then pointing out it seems like the man had a rough day.

“I hate it when she shows up.” Galen asks if that means she’s been here before. This was apparently her third visit, he’s not sure when the visits started, but it’s not that long ago, maybe a month ago. “She just shows up every time someone dies around here?” The barman says that the gang war between these guys has been bloody; the barman doesn’t know for sure if she only shows up here. He does talk to other people around town, but he’s not part of the Ghallanda house so people tend to shun him. He just knows she’s shown up here three times now.

“But, hold on a second, how the fuck do you know she … every time I talk to somebody; nobody’s ever seen her,” he then says, saying he thought he was going insane. “How are you remembering this? What did she look like to you?” Galen describes a lady in a dark dress with a golden mask and a scythe. The barman seems relieved someone else has seen her too. “This might sound silly, but this is the best news I’ve had in a while, I honestly thought I was going insane.” He asks Galen what’s special about them what lets them remember this, to which Galen says he doesn’t know. “That’s too bad. I’ll just keep looking out for other people who have seen her.”

Galen says he was just curious if he’d seen her, pointing out she seems to show up and pay you for bodies. Then tells the barman to maybe not drink too hard, before promising to try and not kill people in his bar too often. Galen then takes his leave.

Petr and D4 make their way towards Nine Quick Fingers, walking in right as something seems to have exploded, though they didn’t hear an explosion. The shopkeep seems to have been working on a fan of sorts, and is covered in soot, rubbing his eyes as his eyebrows still singe a little. He greets Petr and D4, asking how they can help him. D4 has to take a second to look at the man, who looks different than before now that he’s covered in more soot.

D4 offers to take a look at the fan that the shopkeep was working on, offering some advice on how to fix it next time. “If you put the pentabolt in the hammerclog, it might be better,” he offers, to which the shopkeep thanks him for the insight. D4 then asks about the ingots, pulling out some of the silverware they found, wondering if that’s something that’s of interest to the shopkeep. Though he appreciates the offer, he says he doesn’t really work with silver. “I do hear the Glowing Kipper trades in silver by the buttload,” he points out.

The ingots are purchased, D4 paying the man 15 platinum. Petr then suggests they head straight through to the ship, hoping to get it patched up before they have their meeting later that night. As they make it to the ship, most of the town seems to be watching some dinosaur races, a lot of action happening around them. At the ship itself, they notice that the ladder is down, spotting two bodies at the bottom of it.

They’re pretty sure the ladder wasn’t down before. As they get closer, they realise the bodies are that of an orc and a harpy, both covered in dust and various cuts. The harpy seems to have the same paint on the feathers as the other harpy the group encountered earlier. Petr takes a closer look, noticing strange black and purple puss on the wounds of the orc. “That’s not how orcs are supposed to bleed,” Petr points out to D4, saying he doesn’t like this.

He wonders if whoever did this might be on the ship right now, D4 suggesting that maybe they just fell off the ladder. “That would be a good case of instant karma,” Petr says, briefly explaining to D4 what karma is when he asks. As D4 then pokes at the blood, little black bubbles sprout out of the puss, and he swears they’re blinking.

D4 then suggests they go up to the ship, with Petr saying they should play rock, paper, scissors to determine who goes up first. They do so, Petr eventually winning and climbing up the ladder first, D4 following closely behind. They try to climb up quietly, but aren’t super successful at this.

They spot a smear of blood on the deck, but not much else seems to have been disturbed. Petr helps D4 aboard and heads towards the hold, noticing a couple of feathers strewn around, but other than that, no signs of trouble. All the warforged are still in the hold, intact; whoever was here seems to have left again. D4 points out that this is odd, saying that it seems they had a karma thing.

With the ship clear, they turn their attention back to fixing the rotor, saying they’ll tell the captain about what they found when they meet up again later. D4 has no problem fixing the ship, melting the iron in his small onboard forge and getting to work.

Meanwhile, Beck, Galen and Rydia make their way over towards the Glowing Kipper, knowing how to get there. Where the cliffside stops and meets the water of Lake Cyre, they see a small docking pier, a bar and a single tower next to it. There’s some crates on the ground, some people hanging around outside, mostly halflings. The bar windows are completely fogged over, but they can hear loud laughing and drinking from inside. It seems to be full inside.

As they approach, Beck ducks into an alleyway briefly, telling Galen and Rydia he’ll be right back. As he emerges from the alleyway again, he looks different; emerging as a dark skinned elven woman, with big bushy black hair, white tattoos covering her arms, his shirt adjusted into a white tunic.

She’ll join up with Galen and Rydia again, telling them she’s ready to go when they are. “So you can just change into whoever you like, whenever you like?” Galen asks, which Lux confirms. “I cannot tell you what I’m thinking right now.” Rydia quickly adds that she can, whilst Lux wonders if she wants to know what Galen is thinking right now, but they soon drop it, deciding on how to approach this place.

They decide they’re trying to deduce how many people there are, as well as try and find if there’s any side entrances or something. Galen offers to take a walk around the place, as Lux says she’ll head inside to see if she can find Asharra and otherwise just take a look around. Rydia asks Galen where he wants her to go, and then agrees to go with him, the two of them saying they’ll meet Lux inside in a bit.

As Galen and Rydia walk around outside, they notice some people on the docks who seem to be keeping an eye out. Galen quickly notices that there’s a large tower with a pulley system of sorts, seemingly to lift things up. He also notices a smaller tower that seems to lead to the second floor of the bar. The dock itself contains three mooring piers, with not much else going on as there aren’t any ships at the moment. At the top of the nearby cliff, where the large tower with the pulley ends, he can see a massive nest, hidden behind some bushes.

The bar has two floors and from the second floor you’d be able to get up on the cliff. A detour around the harbor will probably get you there as well. As they’re looking around, they notice two scruffy looking halflings seem to be keeping an eye on them. Rydia moves up closer to Galen, looping her arm through his, trying to sell a romantic walk around the water as she also casts Guidance on him.

They realise it’ll look suspicious if they keep heading in the direction of the beach, so they decide to head back towards the bar, trying to enter via the door on the second floor. They take a detour to get there to try and take in more of their surroundings.

Meanwhile, down below, Lux walks into the tavern. There’s a good atmosphere, people are drinking at the bar, there’s large flagons of ale, mead, wine, some people drinking brandy. There’s an orc behind the bar, cleaning glasses and behind the bar, there’s a large chalkboard menu. Most notably, all the prices on there are in silver, and there’s only one food item, called Grist sausage.

There’s a couple of rowdy halflings with bloodshed eyes, looking over at her as she comes in, but she largely ignores this. Looking around, she tries to see if anyone’s actually eating, but no one seems to be. Walking in casually, Lux looks around for other entrances and any other points of interest. There are two doors behind the bar, and there’s two stairs that lead up; otherwise, she doesn’t see any doors or other entrances. This strikes her as odd, as the place seems kind of small and there’s not many creatures here outside of halflings and the one orc.

Approaching the bar, Lux takes a seat and the orc behind the bar greets her. She tells him she’s a travelling performer and she’s heard great things about Asharra, asking about when she’ll perform next. The orc tells her there’ll be another performance tonight, along with the five feathers; though the orc says that only three of the five feathers will be performing as two of them have fallen ill. “Asharra is the star of the show, so I can assure you it’ll still be worth your coin.”

Lux offers her musical skills as a back up, but the orc points out that the five feathers have a lot of plumage, which Lux doesn’t have. She then asks about the menu; the orc promises the Grist is excellent, saying they have a mill on site where they grind the meat. Drinks wise they don’t make anything local, as they’re still setting up. He goes on to say they’ve only been in town a few months, saying they had business in passage for a while and he’s so far enjoying the city of Gatherhold.

As she has no silver, Lux simply claims a seat, waiting for Rydia and Galen to join her. Rydia and Galen, who try to enter through the top entrance of the bar. There’s no clear sign of the nest from where they are now, but outside of the entrance to the bar they notice a low wall that leads to the tower to the pulley, as well as a small storage shed. Galen also notices a small drainage pipe that leads to a grate in the ground, just in front of the storage shed.

It’s a lot more quiet up here, though they can still hear laughing and drinking from within the bar. Galen wonders about what they’re supposed to do here anyway; wondering if they’re meant to kill everyone. Rydia points out they should probably only kill the right ones, though Galen wonders how they’re meant to figure out who the right ones are.

“Remember when I told that changeling guy I could tell him what you’re thinking?” Rydia tells Galen she can read minds, to which Galen simply says “So this is how it is now, huh?” Rydia says they’ll have to go with yes for now, and Galen says he’s not mad, he’s just concerned. “That’s funny; I’m concerned I’m mad.”

They head inside, Galen pointing out they still need to have a talk, but they soon find themselves face to face with a huge looking bouncer fellow, who tells them the gambling tables are closed to the public. Galen apologises, saying they thought this was the way inside, then asks about the gambling tables. There’s two games ongoing, all of the players are halfings. The man says that the gambling tables are off limits, but shows them down the stairs, which is how they can get to the bar.

The room they’re in is relatively small, so Rydia casts Detect Thoughts, reading the surface thoughts of most people in the room. There’s a number of halflings that seem to be convinced they’re winning, there’s one who’s very down in the dumps, who’s definitely had too much to drink. There’s one that stands out, wearing a large hat and a precious looking mantel. He doesn’t seem occupied with the game at all.

Rydia communicates all this to Galen telepathically as they’re ushered down, entering the more welcoming atmosphere of the tavern proper. They can see that the other staircase leads up to another balcony which seems to contain another five tables, and they also spot Lux sitting at the bar. Rydia, with Detect Thoughts still up, doesn’t notice the presence of anyone she can’t see. She notices that that orc is vaguely sizing up Lux, and also notices that there’s one other halfling, drinking by himself. The halfling and the orc seem to be the only ones who work here.

The captain eventually returns to the ship, questioning D4 and Petr about the bodies down below before they move the ship from the crevasse, hovering over the early portion of the harbor to help get the warforged down to the Jackdaw warehouse. D4 also takes the time to build his drone, now that he has the dragonshard he needed.

Lightning starts to arc from the dragonshard as he implements it, and the Zoomer whizzes to life with a high pitched electrical sound. D4 instantly shows Petr, demonstrating some of what the drone does. “It helps me see, plus I can make it a spotlight for us when it’s dark, and I even made something for you squishies, it can cure your wounds!” Petr asks if he can try it on him, as he still has a wound from earlier.

The zoomer approaches Petr, something collapses from the bottle and needles emerge, start stitching up Petr’s wounds, but it doesn’t do much to actually heal him. D4 says it still needs some work, but it should work next time. “The lights work, see?” The lights flash, so clearly they work.

Back at the bar, Lux does another quick lap around the bar, using Detect Magic to see if there’s anything magical about the place. As she walks around, not much lights up, but there are two things of note. There’s a small stage in the corner, and on a little stool on the stage is a simple wand, which seems to have Transmutation magic. She also sees a simple glow coming from underneath the door directly behind the bar, likely a glyph of some sorts.

She meets up with Galen and Rydia then, Galen buying Rydia and Lux a drink. Lux thanks him, to which Galen says he makes good on requests, saying Rydia wanted a drink. “So what’s your story anyway?” he then asks Lux, to which Lux simply says she’s someone who comes from a land that no longer exists. He then asks how long Lux has been on the ship; she says it’s been about two years. They get around a decent amount when the ship’s not broken, which Lux says is not as often as one might think.

“Between you and me, Rydia and I could do with a way out of town, regardless of how this all goes,” Galen then says, Lux saying it’ll be good to have a way out for everyone involved. Rydia then points out she noticed that the ship seems to be somewhat of a democracy, which she thinks is weird. Lux says they’ve known each other long enough; everyone does their part and everyone gets their say, but it’s the captain who gets final say.

“So democracy until it doesn’t suit you?” “I’m not the captain, so democracy until it doesn’t suit her. But she’s fair,” Lux says, saying the captain knows what’s best for the ship and the crew at most times. Galen responds that it seems like an advantage, having someone in charge who knows how to protect her crew and keep them out of trouble. Rydia then suggests they finish up their drinks and head back, so they take their leave, heading back to the harbor, easily spotting the Heritage floating above it.

Grekk is conjuring up a Floating Disc, using it to ferry the warforged from the ship down to a warehouse about two at a time. It takes some time, meaning it’s somewhat visible to the outside world; there’s no good way to stealthily get warforged down from an airship.

Whilst this is happening, the group reconvenes aboard the airship, Galen, Lux and Rydia riding one of the floating discs back up to it. After everyone relays their information, the captain says she’s fairly certain there’s another part in the back of the bar that they didn’t spot on their scouting mission. They all take some time to rest up, healing up as Lux shifts back to Beck and spends some ten minutes looking down at an amulet.

Petr shares what they found on the bodies below the ship, Galen asking him where exactly they found the bodies. He assures the others they didn’t find anything broken or missing on the ship, but it did seem like a fight took place there. Petr describes the purple puss in more detail to Galen and Rydia as they ask about it.

Beck, overhearing this, deduces that the orc that Galen asked about before might be the orc that Petr found dead at the bottom of the ladder to the ship, asking Galen if this is why he thought there was an orc on their crew. “I mean, we might have met an orc, who seemed to be on the airship crew at the time.” Beck asks if that means they were here, considering the orc was here, to which Galen’s answer gets somewhat vague.

“Welcome board aboard the ship then,” Beck says, Rydia pointing out that she and Galen were simply concerned citizens. There was smoke, a very shifty orc; they were just looking for a way out of town. Both Galen and Rydia go on to say they were simply offering assistance, Beck thanking them for having protected their boat.

As they mention the harpies, Beck says it’s strange that they’ve encountered more of them. Rydia points out the nest Galen saw and Beck points out that Asharra is missing two out of her five feathers that are part of her band, which seems to be a weird coincidence at best. Galen confirms there was a painted harpy in their hold when they were aboard the ship, who was carrying a bunch of silver, to which Beck says they had a similar encounter with a harpy. Their encounter included a t-rex, not an orc.

Rydia points out that Galen didn’t do much to fight against the orc as he got charmed, saying he has a tendency to get charmed and Galen says he took a fall from the ship, but the situation was under control. Beck then asks whether or not they caused the purple puss on the body of the orc, to which Rydia swears to any god they believe in that neither she nor Galen caused the puss.

They then go back discussing the matter at hand, that being what they’re going to do later that night for their meeting with the Daask. Rydia suggests they can do as they planned to do, maybe they can talk some sense into them, with Galen adding that maybe he and Rydia should head in first.

D4s zoomer comes flying in through the conversation, with D4 pointing out they have the element of surprise as the people they’re meeting with don’t know Galen and Rydia. Rydia points out that if they’re expecting it to get messy, they’re probably better off sticking together, which is what they eventually agree on.

Galen suggests their beloved new airship crew should use their democracy to decide on what to do, so the captain says they should go into the back, try and speak with them, suggesting they fake giving them the money back and see what’s going on back there. “We’re still kind of blind, so it’d be good to see what’s going on back there. So, we bullshit our way in, try to leave the remainder of our money with them, see if we can get out and see if we learn anything and, if the moment strikes us or if we detect anything amiss, we can improvise.”

She does leave it up to the rest of the crew to come up with other suggestions as well, but they decide that the captain’s plan might be the best approach. Petr simply suggests they bring their weapons, which everyone agrees is a good idea.

Rydia then asks if they have a galley, offering to whip up some food. The captain leads her there; there’s a small stove, a small pantry with the absolute basics, as well as a strangely large amount of mushrooms. Looking over what she has to work with, Rydia starts working on making a form of scotch eggs. Once she finishes making them, she passes them around to the others, which for the crew of the airship is the best food they’ve seen in a while.

Petr asks what’s in them, to which Galen suggests they maybe shouldn’t ask what’s in it; just accept it tastes good and say thank you. He then says he missed Rydia’s cooking, to which Rydia says she’ll do it more often if they stick around. Petr points out this makes him feel more alive, much like his special mushrooms, but different.

While having some food, the captain points out Rydia is more than welcome to stick around and cook, as this is more than what they’re used to. Rydia thanks her, but does point out they’re in dire need of supplies, to which the captain says they’ll do some shopping tomorrow.

As they head back out, the Gatherhold docks are a lot darker than they were last night, a bit more abandoned. The water from the lake is faintly glowing and there’s a few more moons in the sky tonight, causing some more illumination. Torches are burning in sparse locations throughout the harbour as they approach the bar.

There’s more lights around the bar; the windows are still grimy, the light behind them somewhat dull, but it looks lively inside. As they enter, the familiar atmosphere from before returns for Beck, Galen and Rydia. There’s a lot of patrons and everyone’s clustered around the stage as people are anxiously awaiting the arrival of Asharra.

The orc behind the bar nods at Rydia and Galen, recognising them from before as a small halfling man climbs up onto the stage, wearing an impressive triceratops mask as he takes the wand that Lux spotted before. He taps it, and his amplified voice fills the room as he greets the patrons inside the bar. “Tonight we are proud to present to you, the Queen of the Aerie, the incomparable, Asharra!”

He points towards the stairs and fluttering down is this colorful harpy, with behind her three back up dancers. Asharra is mainly blue and gold colored as the other three are rainbow colored. The entire crowd stands up and applauds as the harpies start to sing. Their song mesmerizes Galen, Rydia as well as the captain, the captain reaching into her pockets for any means of payment, digging up some silver and blindly ordering herself an ale.

Quickly recognising what this is, Beck and Petr move up to the captain, Galen and Rydia, Petr shaking Galen from his trance as Beck manages to snap the captain and Rydia out of theirs. As Beck violently shakes the captain, the orc behind the bar comments on the violence. Beck retorts with a ‘no charming my captain’, which the orc pretends to not have heard.

With all three of them no longer charmed, the orc is now looking at them. “We were told to ask for a lily,” Beck says, watching as the orc’s eyes grow and his eyebrows raise. He tells them to move behind the bar, double checking if it’s all of them going in, which Beck confirms. Right before he opens the door, he says ‘please do follow’, which they deduce is some sort of pass phrase for the glyph that Lux noticed earlier, as the orc doesn’t actually lead the way and instead just tells them to head in.

They walk into this really small storage chamber, with a lot of large vats in it. The orc tells them to open the latch to their right. “Once you get down, just follow the rushing water, cross it and you’ll see another latch.” The captain leads the way, climbing down the ladder, and they end up in a small cellar. There’s multiple crates and vats of various things; it doesn’t seem to be occupied at this point, but they do hear the rushing water the orc mentioned.

Following the sound of the water, the cellar leads into a narrow hall which contains a very rudimentary bridge over what seems to be sewage water. On the other side of the bridge is another ladder leading up. The captain continues leading the way, the others following closely behind.

They emerge into another room, immediately spotting Plucky, the massive minotaur the airship crew ran into before. The room is filled with what seem to be mattresses, scattered across the floor with on them mainly halflings, some humans. There’s a thick aroma of smoke in the air; this looks like an opium den. To their left they see a large table, with two wererats sitting at it, eating and enjoying themselves.

The people lying on the mattresses are high, not moving much, all seemingly completely out of it. There is another orc behind a bar to the top of the room who is not partaking in the drugs, though notable the bar doesn’t have vats, it just has a large cabinet with many drawers. He’s in the process of preparing a fix for a customer.

Plucky lets the captain, Beck and Petr through, but holds out his large axe as he spots Rydia and Galen. One of the wererats stands up from the table, approaching the group. “Ah yeah, the boss was telling us you were coming. Good to see ya, he isn’t here at the moment, but I’m pretty sure we can do the dealings in his stead.”

Though he’s happy to do the dealings, he asks who Galen and Rydia are, to which Beck quickly points out they’re with them. The wererat points out Galen and Rydia weren’t there last night; they got pretty accurate descriptions, and Plucky is sharp as hell; he’d have seen them if they were there. Plucky grunts as if to confirm this, but Beck still maintains that Rydia and Galen were there last night as well. “They were on the ship, Plucky, you couldn’t have seen them,” he says, managing to convince Plucky as well as the wererats.

The other wererats gets up as well, smacking Plucky and calling him a big oaf, Beck assuring the wererats that it’s not Plucky’s fault as he couldn’t have seen them. Plucky removes the battle axe, letting everyone through.

As soon as Rydia walks in the room, she starts hearing a multitude of voices in her mind. These people are having bad dreams and they are reaching out to her. One of the wererats walks over towards the group, saying that they’ve given it a good amount of thought and that they agree to still buying the warforged for a slight discount. “So you give us the goods, we give you the rest of the money for your trouble.”

Beck says they have another offer, saying that Dugorim gave the impression he was no longer interested in the warforged. The wererat pointed out they did come in with a smoking airship, but they figured they could still work with it. “Unfortunately, we’ve had another offer. But we don’t mean any disrespect, so we’re hoping to give you your downpayment back.” The wererat says the boss will probably not like that, but still asks to see the money. He also mentions silver, pointing at himself when saying it’s easier to get the silver out of the way, as it tends to cause trouble for him.

D4 reaches into his chest, pulling 55 platinum out of the hatch in his chest with the zoomer, flying it over towards the wererat. “Maybe my eyes are deceiving me, Whiskers, what do ya think?” He turns to the other wererat, the both of them concluding this isn’t enough money. He asks where the rest of the money is. “You see the unfortunate thing about using D4 here as our quartermaster, is that sometimes, some of the platinum falls down and gets stuck in his cogs,” Beck tries to explain, to which the wererat quickly suggests they can just shake him like a pinata to get the money out.

Beck tries to say that they’ve tried that and it doesn’t really work, but the wererats are fairly convinced Plucky will be able to get it out. Rydia changes the subject, asking what the people behind them are using. “They’re not…” She trails off. “They’re not happy, are they?” she then asks, to which the wererat says they seem pretty happy to him.

As she asks this, Petr feels a rush of wind blow by his face. His vision turns purple grey and around him he can see spirits of various Talenta inhabitants, next to their dinosaurs. They open their mouths and reveal their claws as they come in closer. He can see all these floating spirits above the people on the mattresses, which leaves him frightened. He tries to back away.

Plucky is now heading towards D4, grappling him and holding him up, shaking him to try and get the money out. The captain tries to calm the situation down, telling the wererats they’ll give them the rest of their money soon. “Just see this as a downpayment to your downpayment,” she offers, but the wererats aren’t happy with that. They say they either want everything, or they want the warforged, pointing out that Beck just said they don’t have the latter anymore. “I’m not about to tell Dugorim that I lost both the deal and the money, I’m not doing that.” Beck says they can still get them the rest of the money, as Plucky is still shaking D4, who loudly proclaims he doesn’t like Plucky touching him.

Using his pneumatic arm, he punches at Plucky, hitting him in the face. Rydia pulls out a silver dagger, walking up to one of the wererats, telling him to let the people in here go as she stabs him. Galen moves up to the same wererat, reaching for his pistol and taking a shot at Whiskers, shooting him in the back. It doesn’t seem to hurt Whiskers as much, his wound almost instantly healing over.

Whiskers tries to attack Galen twice, but doesn’t manage to hit his attack as the other wererat, Teeth, rushes up to the captain, biting her as Plucky grabs his axe and swings at D4. From behind the bar, the orc takes out a gun and shoots at Beck, the bullet hitting him in the side. More concerned with Plucky, Beck uses Dissonant Whispers on the minotaur before inspiring D4 as Petr yells at Plucky as well, telling him to let go of his friend as he swings at the minotaur with his quarterstaff. As Petr shakes the images of the spirits from his mind, Rydia sees the composition of the rock before her change, crystals changing with geometric shapes, which frightens her, but she manages to shake it off.

As he’s struggling to get free, D4 opens up a hatch on his body, a bunch of grease pouring down and onto the ground, which makes Plucky slip almost instantly, sending him falling to the ground. He lets go of D4 as he tumbles down, both of them winding up on the floor. D4 quickly scrambles back up, casting Sanctuary on himself.

Moving in closer, the captain stabs at the wererat with her rapier, quickly realising her weapons do no damage. She then jumps onto the table, toppling it over as she shoots her crossbow at the orc behind the bar, leaving the orc looking rough as the bolt hits him right in the neck.

The others watch as Rydia makes eyecontact with Galen, saying the voices are in pain, apologising as her hair goes white, skin as well, the left side of her mouth malforming into a large maw down to her shoulder, teeth, eyes and tendrils appearing from inside as she chows down on the wererat in front of her. The maw wraps around the left arm of Whispers, consuming it and ripping it apart as he screams in pain.

Galen points out they still haven’t talked about the last time this happened, muttering to himself that Rydia is clearly fine before he leans around, taking a shot at the orc behind the bar with his pistol, hitting as the orc almost instantly drops like a sack of potatoes, clearly dead. He then turns to the others, telling them they’re going to have to get creative for the wererats, as normal weapons don’t work.

Whiskers, looking incredibly frightened, attacks Rydia in somewhat of a panic, as Teeth moves in on Petr, swinging at him with his sword. Frustrated, Plucky gets back up, swinging his giant great axe at Galen, which slams right into him and knocks him unconscious, a huge gash running from his face to his shoulder as he goes down.

With a quick ‘we’re not done here yet,” Beck tries his best to ignore whatever the hell just happened to Rydia and instead focuses on Galen, using Healing Word to get him back up. He then walks up to Teeth, reaching out with a Shocking Grasp, but Teeth manages to dodge out of the way. Petr also takes a swing at Teeth with his quarterstaff, but swings wide.

Beck then hears whispers creeping in on his mind, paranoia taking over as he’s suddenly unsure of his identity, his form beginning to rapidly shift between all of his personas. Staring at all of this in somewhat of a panic, the captain fires her crossbow at Plucky but misses before she calls out to Galen, encouraging him to take a shot at Plucky as well, which he does.

Pulling back from Whiskers, Rydia looks from Galen to Plucky as more eyes start growing, her maw growing even larger as she casts Cause Fear, which leaves both Whiskers and Plucky rightfully frightened. Meanwhile, D4 crawls under a table, quickly building a small flamethrowing cannon, which he then uses on Whiskers and Plucky, unfortunately also catching Galen in the blast, knocking him unconscious for the second time. Plucky, who can’t move in closer because of being frightened and because of the puddle of grease, heads into the backroom in frustration. Whiskers, cursing under his breath, is still trying to claw at Rydia as Teeth swipes at both Petr and Beck, the former managing to duck out of the way as Beck is hit.

Still switching between his personas and faces, Beck manages to shake it off as Petr casts Chill Touch on Whiskers, watching as the wererat’s skin shrivels and dries up, perishing after being pulled somewhat into the ground by a skeletal hand. Still hiding behind a table, D4 suddenly spots the cruel face of a familiar dwarven doctor, as he grins at him. Teeth are rotting out of his mouth and he coughs up rust, as D4 feels his limbs starting to lock up and the mere sight of this doctor leaves him frightened.

Trying not to focus on this image, D4 crawls out from under the table, punching at Teeth with his pneumatic arm, managing to hit, though he’s still convinced this doctor is behind him somewhere. He commands the cannon to fire again as well, flames bursting out, leaving Teeth looking crispy and rather rough. The captain climbs up onto a table and jumping down towards where Galen is, stabilising him by putting pressure on his wounds.

Rydia moves closer to Galen, taking a knee beside him and pulling her into her lap as she reaches out, black swirls of energy shooting straight out of the palm of her hand and impacting Teeth, launching him into Beck and Petr as he perishes. She then points her hand at D4, very aware he’s the one who knocked Galen unconscious.

With a ‘still not done yet, buddy’, Beck gets Galen up again, before leaning against the table he’s standing by, taking a moment to catch his breath as he waits for Plucky to come back. They all get ready for when Plucky comes back, weapons aimed and spells prepared.

As Galen awakes, he hears a beautiful singing voice, somehow still sensing the spirit of the harpy he killed that morning. His vision gets completely covered in black feathers, leaving him blinded. Right around that time Plucky comes bursting through the door again, instantly hit by the combined attacks of the group.

He manages to push through, charging at Petr, slamming him back into the captain, both of them knocked prone. Beck moves inbetween Petr, the captain and Plucky, reaching out to Plucky and touching him with a Shocking Grasp. He then turns back around briefly, inspiring Petr, who scrambles back up to his feet, trying to swing at Plucky, but he misses. D4, no longer afraid, moves in closer and attacking with his pneumatic arm, going berserk as he punches at the minotaur repeatedly like a jackhammer.

Calm washes over the place, though it’s still somewhat of a creepy place with all the people around them. They don’t seem disturbed, but Rydia still hears the voices. D4 waddles over to Galen, apologising for having hit him. “It’s still a prototype, I’m still testing it; this was my first time using it.” Galen says there’s a lot of things hurting, but still claims he’s good. He seems to accept D4’s apology, then looks over at Rydia.

Beck asks if everyone’s okay, the captain commenting on Rydia’s look, to which Galen instantly gets defensive. Rydia points out they need to help these people, Beck trying to take a closer look to see if there’s anything they can do. He deduces that they seem addicted; this will probably go away when they stop using it. Though they can’t do much for these people now, they do know where the cupboard is, so destroying the stash might be a good start.

He turns to Petr, asking him if he recognises the drugs they’re taking; Petr almost instantly recognises it as the Dream Lily they found before. “This is Dream Lily, the same thing we found earlier. If we burn this shithole down, that’d likely send a good message, right?” Beck points out finding a way out first is probably smart, after which Petr asks if they should be worried about Dugorim still. They discuss what to do next, as the captain points out there’s two doors, suggesting they look into where they lead.

She and Beck explore the room that Plucky went into, revealing a simple office. There doesn’t seem to be much in there. Meanwhile, D4 retrieves their money from the wererat who initially took it as Galen notices a mask of sorts on that same wererat body. He retrieves it, looking it over, deducing it’s a Talenta Death Mask, which he knows will allow him to Speak with Dead if he places it on the face of someone who’s deceased.

D4 takes the time to look over the other bodies, thinking Plucky’s greataxe might be worth something, and finding a gold ring as well as a coin pouch on the other wererat. The coin pouch contains 27 gold pieces, and he thinks the ring might be worth something as well, maybe somewhere between 75 to 100 gold, as there’s a lapis lazuli gemstone on it as well.

Beck takes the time to collect as much of the drugs from the cupboard as possible, hoping to burn the stash later, as the captain and Petr move towards the other door. They find a storage room, full of goods and as they listen, they can hear the sloshing of water. Moving further into this area, they find a large number of burlap sacks, which the captain takes a closer look at, finding they’re all filled with various silverware.

Meanwhile, Petr walks down a tunnel of sorts, finding himself in front of a large door. Hearing what seem to be yelps of pain from behind it, he pulls the door open, suddenly finding himself face to face with a large troll. The troll looks frightened, knives seemingly clawing at his arms as bits of his flesh are cut off, falling down into a bucket as his skin almost instantly regenerates.

It seems he’s found the Gristmill.