---
order: 022
date: November 10th, 2021
---

# The Fourth Eye
Considering the question from [[Vyssilithar]], Beck asks what she knows of The Coming along with the Eyes. She says it's one of the paths laid out by the rogue - no other dragon support his theories, but [[Vvaraak]] says that when they tried to make peace with [[Dal'Quor]], it was a mistake to allow the original Eye to be shattered. The fact it's shattered could mean that Dal'Quor or another enemy is approaching, but without the whole and intact Eye of [[Arag]], they won't be able to see any threats coming. Rydia asks if he wants to see it assembled, with Vyssilithar commenting that gender is something of a complex subject for dragons.

Given Vvaraak is considered rogue, Galen asks what the rest of the dragons believe. She explains the future is always in motion and hard to predict - there are no clear signs of the Eyes leading to any more catastrophes. Beck questions the phrase 'any more', and Vyssilithar confirms one of the Eyes was what caused the Mourning. The Eye of Arag split into five when Dal'Quor rejected the original diplomatic offer. Vyssilithar says she doesn't know how they caused the Mourning, interpreting that they were toying with powers they didn't fully understand and caused a catastrophe. The Queen of Cyre instructed those bearing the Mark of Creation to build a weapon - and this project went terribly wrong.

Beck asks if there's any realism to [[Masvirik]]'s Nightmares, with Vyssilithar saying that Masvirik has been in constant contact with [[Rashaak]] for many years, and has deep knowledge of the prophecy. She doesn't know if the dreams are real or not, but there may be glimpse of reality that he learned from Rashaak. Beck asks how they can guarantee they don't cause another Mourning, but Vyssilithar assures them the Eye in [[Haka'thorvak]] was used for centuries with no such mishaps. Those in Making were doing things with the Eye no one should have attempted. However, if they need more help with the Eyes, they could contact a colleague of hers - [[Zenobaal]], a member of the Gold Concord. Galen and Petr recognising this, knowing the Aurum is split into three concords - Gold, Silver and Bronze, with Galen's father being a member of the Silver Concord. Vyssilithar says they'd been able to find Zenobaal in the City of Towers - Sharn.

Rydia asks about the Fourth Eye, Vyssilithar saying that in the original rhyme, the fourth eye is the one in Haka'thorvak. She doesn't know where the rest are. The Eye itself is constantly fluctuating, along with its planar connection. Petr asks if they could use one Eye to find the others, which she says may be possible, but she doesn't know how. Galen confirms the rhyme was the prophecy from Vvaraak, before making a suggestion. "What if the prophecy was meant for us?" He points out the prophecy was written aeons ago, but it could be possible the rhyme refers to where the Eyes are now, Galen pointing out the connection to Making. Vyssilithar recites the [[Draconic Prophecy]] again, Galen realising the last line is also familiar to him - it was one of the phrases he heard Rydia saying towards the end of her catatonic state in Gatherhold. At the time, he took it as a good sign that she was breaking out of whatever loop she'd been stuck in. 

Galen admits he could be wrong, and he's not really one for believing in destiny - however Vvaraak sent Rydia here for a reason. Vyssilithar admits it's fortuitous they arrived. She's seen a vague path of a Disciple of the Rogue arriving at Haka'thorvak, followed by an Aberrant, at which she looks to Beck, and one of the Heirs of Aerenal, at which point she turns to Galen. Vyssilithar admits she doesn't know what it is about him, Galen asking what she's talking about. Aerenal is a continent of elves, and whilst Vyssilithar says propehcy is often vague, she smells something elven about Galen. He insists there's no elven blood in his family, Rydia smelling Galen as well to double check.

Beck points out he's not really an Aberrant, he just has a mark, one that Vyssilithar says doesn't belong to a fully formed power. She explains Aerenal is a plenty busy society from what she's heard, but the elves tend to be perfectionists - to the point where even beyond death, they try to be the best. Beck asks if the Daughters of Sora Kell have any connection to Aerenal, which she says they don't. They rule the lands of Droaam with an iron fist, and are trying to be taken seriously - but they shouldn't. Beck asks about Athelonia, and Vyssilithar says she hasn't seen the Queen Regent for over five hundred years. She says she must be sad, seeing her children going to war and bickering among each other.

Conversation turns to the [[Tome of Vvaraak]], Galen asking why anyone would want it. She says there are plenty of people who revere Vvaraak as a bringer of knowledge, pointedly looking to Petr at this. He's a powerful figure in history, and there's a lot of reasons to want it - there's also plenty of people in the Council of Argonessen who would like to see it destroyed. Beck asks why Rashaak would want to read it, Vyssilithar explaining that he is more vengeful that her - hence why she is the guardian, and he is the soldier. She asks for more details, the party explaining he commanded Rydia to read. Vyssilithar asks about the Tome, using Detect Thoughts to dig into Rydia's mind, telling her she won't break anything. She contemplates for a bit before confirming Rydia does seem to have the Tome with her, although it's difficult to discern prophecy from the gibberish around it. Vyssilithar says she has some of the verses in her library, and what she hears in Rydia are either known, or just gibberish.

Vyssilithar withdraws from Rydia, explaining that they gave up using the Eye after the corruption took over Rashaak. However, if they want to see it, they're welcome to proceed. As they do, they can hear something pounding on the door, Beck working out this is likely Jondar. Beck tells her that probably means Rashaak is here. Vyssilithar tells them the tomb is through a door on the other side of the room, and she will take care of Rashaak. Five of the gargoyles from the roof come to life, flying towards her as she places a medallion into a divot on a plinth. The roof twists open, the gargoyles flying out of the temple before she closes the roof behind them. Vyssilithar explains that once they're in place, they can rebuild the Dawnshard network, the [[Poison Dusk]] having brought enough Kyber Crystal to replenish the shards. A surge of blood leaves the basin, Vyssilithar assuring them the first shard is already restored, and Rashaak should calm down once she completes her work.

The group head across the central room towards a door, the doors opening for them as they approach. It leads to another curved hallway, blood running along the floor with a number of draconic reliefs set into the floor. There's daylight pouring into the hall through a crack in the ceiling, with a number of sarcophogi at the sides of the hall. There's a large door at the other end of the hall, a draconic face engraved into the stone, with "Here rests the last Speaker" engraved above it. As they progress, Galen notices some of the sarcophogi are open, with patches of tar staining the floor. Rydia begins to joke it might have been warm in there before giving up the attempt, Beck trying Detect Magic. He senses a strong necrotic energy from the tar, which they agree to avoid as they progress carefully.

They head forward, the entire party caught by surpise as a spirit of a Dragonborn appears beside them, clearly launching themselves towards Bonzobur. Moving quickly, Rydia moves around him and uses her new Telekinetic powers to push it away from him before it can possess him. Two more spirits appear, the group fighting them off and managing to disperse the form of the ghosts. As they do so, two masses of the tar begin to move out of the shadows, approaching the group and sizziling as they cross the blood streaming across the floor. They fight back the assault, Petr putting up a Wall of Fire to try and keep them away from the group. However, Beck eventually falls victim to one, being pulled through the fire as the tar enters Beck, causing him to cast Dimension Door and return back to the main room of the temple, and the massive Dawnshard there. Appearing in the blood pool, Vyssilithar asks what he's doing, Beck managing to choke out that Masvirik seems to be trying to get in, his influence behind the actions of the spirits, which have been corrupted into this state. As the others take care of the remaining tar, Galen runs after Beck, telling Vyssilithar what happened. She then casts Protection From Evil and Good on Beck, the tar expelled from Beck and falling into the blood pool. Galen takes the opportunity, shooting at it as the tar disintegrates into the blood, although Vyssilithar seems visibly confused at him using bullets on it.

Galen moves over to help Beck out of the pool, the two returning to the rest of the group in the hallway. They're soon joined by Vyssilithar, who offers to guide them to the tomb in case of any further mishaps. Lighting torches as they go, she leads the way into a round room with a number of alcoves containing more sarcophogi. There's another on in the center of the room, with a copper orb at the end of the casket. The top half seems to be divided into twelve with a number of hinges, with the face of the orb engraved with the continents of Eberron. Vyssilithar opens the casket, the heavy stone moving aside to reveal an embalmed dragonborn, with a crystal floating above his hands. It seems to be constantly shifting and changing, the gem translucent with a milky white substance swirling inside. The crystal looks exactly the same as the one Beck saw in his dream - as well as the one Rydia saw before.

Vyssilithar telekinetically lifts the crystal from the casket, closing the sarcophogous before placing the crystal on top. She says she'll return to the main sanctum, and will remain there if they need anything. Petr asks about the copper orb, which Vyssilithar opens with a piece of her amulet, the orb opening up. She explains the Speaker used it to talk to people - once the crystal is placed inside, the orb can control the osciliation of the crystal and help find whichever soul they're looking for, even the dead. If they angle the orb towards the plane of Dolurrh, they would be able to contact the souls of the dead. She asks if they're interested in it, as she's happy to gift it to them for their efforts in protecting the city. This is accepted, with Vyssilithar explaining that the orb can create a demiplane, to guarantee safety for those communicating. She says she has no need for it, as she can reach those she needs to with psionics, and leaves them in the Tomb. As they look at the inside of the orb, they can see the inside is dotted with tiny dragonshards.

Galen asks if they want to use it before putting it away, as Beck passes out the doorknob to take the orb. Rydia, who's been staring at the crystal the entire time, eventually snaps out of it as Galen asks if she wants to talk to Vvaraak. She points out they don't know where he is, which seems to be a necessary part of using the orb. Instead she reaches out for the crystal, which starts to shift more quickly as her hand draws closer. She looks over to Galen, who pauses for a moment. "I think we were meant to do this," he tells her, before Rydia takes hold of the crystal, the milky white substance moving towards her hand inside the crystal. 

As she touches it, Rydia finds herself in some sort of primordial forest - there's massive ancient trees, along with grass and fauna she doesn't recognise. In the distance is a giant elk, which seems to be at least five times her size. The vision lasts for a few moments, but as she returns to the Tomb, she discovers she can see much further than before, seeing into the darkness that extends towards the ceiling of the temple. Rydia explains what she saw, joking that she was blinded by the trees. Beck asks if it stays after she lets go, but the crystal begins to oscilate again, although her improved vision remains. 

Galen begins to reach for the crystal, which starts to move more quickly, but he withdraws his hand. Rydia assures him it seems to be safe - at least, she doesn't think it'll cause the Mourning, or give him an eternity of visions. Reassured a little, Galen picks it up, being immediately drawn into a vision of himself floating. He sees a dark sky above, red lightning spiking across it. There's no floor, but pieces of rock bounce past each other in a chaotic swirl. After a moment, he returns back to the temple, but a split second feels like it's been at least half an hour. Rydia asks how it was, Galen confirming it was a lot before she asks if anyone else wants to try. Petr offers, Galen handing the crystal off to him before he has the same vision as Galen. 

Petr offers the crystal to Beck, who takes it with his mage hand and places it into the orb. The dragonshards within begin to light up, the crystal locking into place. As Beck investigates, he realises the orb rotates. Walking over to it, he places his hand on the crystal. Beck feels something solid under his feet, but can see a view over a massive maze, the edges of it breaking apart and reforming as it shifts. In the middle of the maze, Beck could see the group, into the room where they are in the temple. As he instinctively releases the crystal, he feels a spike of pain and describes what he saw to the others. Rydia laughs nervously, suggesting they shouldn't do that again. Beck asks if she's seen a maze, which she confirms she has - a weird one. Rydia asks how long he was there, Beck saying it felt like too long. As they have this conversation, Beck begins to hear echoes of everyone's thoughts.

Rydia suggests they stop touching it until they figure out how it works, maybe through a safer way. Rydia turns to Galen and tells him she saw a maze, Galen beginning to suggest they pack it up as Petr nudges Bonzo and says he's the only one who hasn't tried it. Bonzo immediately seizes the opportunity, moving over and placing his hand on the crystal. He finds himself at the top of a rugged mountain peak, a huge Roc gliding by in the distance. There's snow falling around him, and the place seems to have a natural beauty to it. As he returns to the temple, Bonzo finds his vision stretches further as well. 

Listening to all the descriptions, Galen realising these match up to planes. Rydia and Bonzo seem to be describing Lamannia, the Twilight Forest, the giant beasts linking up to papers Galen's read on theories about how all giant beasts in Eberron came from Lamania. Petr and his own visions seem to line up with Kythri, the Churning Chaos, whilst Beck was likely in Xoriat, the Realm of Madness. 

Galen suggests they pack up and leave, but Beck insists he was still looking at the orb. Galen asks if he's sure, before offering to help get it working. Rydia calls out to Beck as he moves towards the crystal. "Last time I saw what you saw, I came back like this, ate two of my friends and was insane for months. Be careful." Beck promises he will be, before slowly beginning to turn the orb. Moving the arrow into place, it locks at the center of one of the sections, the crystal solidifying in the orb. Beck reaches out to touch it again, his vision shifting to a forest filled with greens and purples, on a small road that leads to a clearing beyond. With small fireflies floating in the air around him, Beck realises he's likely in Thelanis, the Faerie Court. 

Beck steps forward, finding himself dressed in a long white robe as he does so, looking around the area. Everything seems to be unnaturally clean and perfect, and as he reaches the clearing, he finds a structure which seems to be abandoned, with some plants creeping inside. Beck moves around, calling out for Yasmin, but there's no response, and he realises he's likely in the wrong place. Every religion in Eberron believes that the dead end up in Dolurrh. Releasing the crystal, Beck returns to the temple, describing what he saw. 

Galen asks what Beck's looking for, who tells him that he's looking to contact the dead. Aware that the planes are always listed in the same order, Galen realises they need to turn the orb a few places in order to reach Dolurrh. He does so, Beck touching the crystal once more.

He finds himself in a stretch of bleak, grey caverns, with a number of shadows moving around him. There's a chill in the air, mists surrounding him as he moves forward, searching the cavern. Beck calls out for Yasmin once more, who immediately appears from a side cavern, asking if it's really him. He says it is, and Yasmin asks what he's doing there, and if he's dead. Beck says he isn't, but he managed to find a way to talk to her. She asks how, but Beck tells her it's a long story before asking how she is. "I don't know. Time is a bit weird here. I have a feeling I haven't seen you in centuries, but it could also be ten minutes. It's very disconcerting," Yasmin tells him, doing her best to hold it together. Beck tells her it's been two years, before moving over to hug her tightly, the embrace lasting for a long moment.

Yasmin tells him that Olladra says they might be able to reach her court, as there are ways to pass beyond Dollurh. Beck asks if there's anything he can do to help. "Pray", she tells him. He asks what happened, Yasmin saying she was at home, playing with their daughter, Naveena on the porch swing. It was a good day, with no new ration cuts or anything horrible. Then, she saw a wall of mist approaching from the south. People began to panic in the streets as Yasmin picked up Naveena, heading inside and trying to close all the doors and windows. When the mist hit, it didn't seem to matter, coming straight through the walls. After that, she blacked out, ending up here in something that looked like a frozen forest. She took Naveena into the caves because it seemed safer, although she doesn't know how long ago this was. She hasn't seen anyone else since then. 

Looking around for Naveena, Yasmin asks where she is before Beck says he doesn't think he can speak to both of them. "Tell her I love her", Beck asks, Yasmin saying she will. She asks if they can talk more often, which Beck says he thinks they can, although he'd need to check. Yasmin says she'd like that, to which Beck agrees. "I don't know how long I've got," Beck tells her after a moment, to which Yasmin smiles faintly. "Well, I've got eternity." She moves in to hug Beck again, kissing him as she moves into his embrace. After a long moment, Beck says his goodbyes before releasing the crystal, his eyes slowly readjusting to the temple as he realises he can't hear the others thoughts anymore.

Beck confirms it works, as long as they know what plane to target. Galen asks what they want to do next, Rydia saying she wants to find out where Vvaraak is, suggesting they could ask Vyssilithar as she seems to know everything. Beck asks what the surroundings were like when Rydia spoke to Vvaraak, but when she describes the caves, it doesn't sound familiar for anyone in the group. With nothing else to do, Galen suggests they pack up and leave, although Beck asks if they have anyone else they want to talk to. Petr points out they could take the time on the Heritage to try out all the options. "Don't pick the last one," Rydia tells him, the group well aware by now that the twelfth plane is Xoriat.

Galen suggest they leave before Masvirik's corruption worsens, Rydia agreeing she can ask Vyssilithar about Vvaraak as they leave. Before they do, Galen turns to Petr, gently asking if he has experience with hallucinations. "How do you know if something's real or if it's all in your head?" Petr says normally a hangover the next day means it was probably all an illusion, but it's not particularly scientific. He suggests bringing an eyewitness along or marking something, but Petr points out this sounds hypothetical but there's clearly a reason behind it. Beck asks what he saw, Galen saying he's been having dreams that he assumed were illusions. Someone told him it was important he doesn't die, as he's too valuable to lose. Beck points out that sounds creepy, which Galen agrees to. "I thought it was creepy bullshit, and then a dragon told me I'm one of the Heirs of Aerenal." Beck comments that it might not be bullshit, which Galen confirms is exactly what he's worried about.

Beck points out he saw the Eye in his dream and it looks the same as the real one, but Galen deflects by saying the dream he's talking about wasn't Masvirik's nightmare. He initially says he doesn't want to talk about that one, before admitting the group all ended up dead. Beck points out they're not dead. "Not yet at least", Bonzo chips in. Rydia asks if he could tell if he was dead, which Bonzo admits he probably couldn't. 

Galen insists the dreams he's talking about happened before they reached Haka'thorvak, explaining it featured someone he used to work for and that it seemed like they did something to him with a needle. Bonzo asks if he was in the hospital, which Galen declines, Petr agreeing that does sound more like a drug induced hallucination. Galen agrees, explaining he assumed it was something his brain made up since he's been under a lot of stress lately. However, he's now considering the option that it might be real. Beck asks how they go about figuring that out, and Galen says he doesn't really want to ask the woman he worked for. Beck suggests finding a doctor in Sharn, but Galen says he wouldn't know what to tell them to look for since he's fine. Beck challenges that, given all the blue orbs that seem to come from him. 

Galen deflects, suggesting they leave as Rydia agrees with him by saying Galen's fine. "You all have weird definitions of the word 'fine'," Petr tells them, which Beck agrees with. Galen relents, admitting that maybe they're all messed up, but given he can't change that, he's just trying to live with it. Petr points out there's a difference between accepting it and looking for answers. Galen insists not everything needs to be fixed, but Beck tells him there's a difference between finding an answer and fixing something. Either way, they can't do that today, so Beck suggests they leave, Galen agreeing before Bonzo picks up another bad habit. Bonzo protests, Galen pointing out all the problems he's had lately as the group make their way back towards the main temple.

When they arrive, they find Vyssilithar meditating on the edge of the blood pool, opening her eyes as they enter. She says they must have had an interesting afternoon, Rydia pointing out it didn't really come with a manual. Vyssilithar apologises - she never used the crystal herself, and couldn't really help any further with how to work it. She says she hopes they're alright, to which Beck agrees they'll live. "It's perfectly normal for someone as frail as yourself to put such an emphasis on life," Vyssilithar comments, to which Beck responds they can't all be centuries old dragons.

Rydia asks if she knows where Vvaraak is, but she says she doesn't - none of the Argonessen Dragons or the Council have any idea where he is, only that he vanished. Rydia asks if she can describe something to her, Vyssilithar instead offering to look at it mentally. Rydia allows her in, thinking back on her conversation with Vvaraak as Vyssilithar reads her mind. She says she doesn't recognise the location, but Vvaraak is alive, and quite mad from what she's heard, warning Rydia to be careful around him. She asks how Rydia's telekinetics have been since the dragonshard, Rydia responding. "I wanted things and they happened. I wanted to get something away from Galen and it went away," going on to explain she pushed a ghost away from Bonzo. 

Vyssilithar says she wanted to teach her another trick, one she could use to contact her later. It can move between planes, but only in short messages. However, Vyssilithar says she'll have to ask them to allow her to change their memories, so that their conversations never happened. "The moment you step out of this temple, Masvirik will get in your heads again, and he cannot know I'm here. I am the last line of defense." Galen asks if this means everything they learned will go away, but she says she can amend it so they learned the information from books in her library - only her existence needs to disappear. Beck confirms they'd still remember what they saw in the crystal, which she says she wouldn't take from them.

"It's easier to keep secrets if you don't remember anything about it," Beck says, Vyssilithar agreeing. She tells them to remember to find Zenobaal of the Gold Concord in the City of Towers - he can help with the rest of the crystals. Her eyes then close, Vyssilithar beginning to float slightly as there's a wave of energy across the room. The moment before it hits, Galen and Rydia recognise it as the same spell cast by the lady with the golden scythe they saw in Gatherhold. 

A few moments later, the group find themselves dazed, and alone in the middle of the temple.







