---
order: 008
date: June 30th, 2021
---

# The House Always Wins

A young man with short flat hair and dressed in beautifully crafted adamantine armour emblazoned with the House Cannith sigil, a blue cloak over the top, Jonah looks over the whole group, his eyes eventually focusing on both Beck and Fianin. “Well, if it isn’t my former master at arms,” Jonah greets Fianin, exchanging greetings before Jonah looks at Beck. Still in the form of Rosevyr, he asks Beck to drop the disguise, which he does. Jonah then greets Beck as well, asking to see what they’ve got. “How do I know it’s you?” Beck asks, his eyes drifting to the Moonbeam, still hovering somewhere between Rosevyr and Jonah. Jonah asks if this this the only way they have of checking, before coming up with an alternative suggestion.

Crossing the space, Jonah moves closer to Beck, whispering into his ear. “You have an aberrant dragonmark.” Asking if that’s enough, Beck confirms this before they turn to business. Jonah asks what they got on the train, Beck responding they found letters. Jonah asks to see them, Beck agreeing before looking to Galen, who pulls them out of his jacket and hands them over to Jonah. Jonah begins flicking through them, studying them for a time as Rosevyr anxiously looks on. Beck takes the chance to move closer to the Captain, who seems to be uncomfortable with the situation.

Jonah initially seems disappointed, not sure as to why a bundle of love letters would be special, until he eventually finds mention of the brick they laid together. He smiles when he sees this, looking to Rosevyr. Rosevyr asks if the information is to his liking. “Well, it wasn’t exactly what I was hoping for, but this is decent enough. Do you know what this is Rosevyr?” She says she doesn’t. “Is there anyone else here who knows about this document?” She also confirms she’s the only one at the house who’s aware of it. “Excellent,” Jonah says, before drawing his pistol and shooting her directly in the chest.

Sitting there, Jonah looks over the group as Beck gets to his feet, putting himself between them and Jonah. Petr takes a concerned look at Rosevyr, unable to tell if she’s dead or just bleeding out. Footsteps can be heard as Rosevyr’s people begin to rush downstairs, pistols and shotguns in hand that they turn onto the entire group around the table. Galen and Rydia pointedly raise their hands, Rydia subtly pointing towards Jonah. With the letters still in hand, Jonah drops the gun. “It’s been a pleasure,” he says, tossing his cape over his shoulder right as Rydia casts Mind Spike on him. He curses under his breath right as he disappears from the room, the magic of the cape taking him out of Rosevyr’s place.

More of Rosevyr’s staff appear, most of them standing down as none of the remaining people have guns drawn. Beck moves to check on Rosevyr, who is severely wounded and bleeding out, but not dead. With the help of a quick healing spell, the wound in her chest starts to close up as Rosevyr comes back to consciousness with a cough, shakily thanking Beck for his help. She asks what happened, Beck saying he disappears. “I think I know where he is,” Rydia offers, her face pale and an extra eye on her left cheek, looking off into the distance. Beck asks how far away Jonah is, Rydia explaining she’s a bit fuzzy, but points in the direction of the eye. He asks if they should go after him as Galen reaches for Jonah’s gun. A very well made weapon, it’s inlaid with gold detailing, a revolver with four bullets left in the chamber. Inspecting one, the end of the casing has a gear on it whilst the body of the bullet is seemingly made of glass, a hint of blueish energy encased within. Holding one of the bullets up, Galen points out Jonah seems like a dangerous person to go after. Not familiar with the gun, Beck points out he’s also powerful in other ways, being very well connected. Petr points out if he could drop the gun and leave it behind, he likely has a lot more up his sleeve, which Beck agrees wouldn’t surprise him.

Galen asks if Beck knows him. “You could say that,” he replies, before Fianin jumps in. “Unfortunately yes. He used to be a great boss, I don’t know what happened.” “He used to be a great friend too,” Beck adds. Petr asks what his deal his, but Beck says he doesn’t know. Turning to Rosevyr, Petr asks Rosevyr why he shot her. She theorises that he doesn’t want people knowing about what they found. Beck states he didn’t attack the party, but Rosevyr says he was severely outnumbered, which was likely enough to put him off. She seems to be just as surprised as everyone else that he decided to shoot her. “That’s why I wanted my people here, for protection,” Rosevyr explains. But then she agrees it’s likely a good thing that they sent them away, as he would have likely lashed out at them too. However, Jonah has quite the entourage with him, meaning that it’s likely not safe for them outside.

Keeping track of Jonah, Rydia tells them he’s moving further away from the House, but also away from the train station, which is how he got there. He doesn’t appear to be moving towards the airship either, instead heading further downtown. Galen asks if Beck wants to go after him, but no one is sure what it would get them. Beck says he’s more motivated to go to Metrol, but Rydia states that he likely is as well, meaning they’ll likely see him again. In any case, Galen points out it’s probably worth finding out what the bullets do before they get into a fight with him. Beck asking Rosevyr what happened, she says she felt a paralyzing shock as it hit her. On hearing this, Galen realises these are likely Elemental Bullets, which can be customised by using the gear.

Beck asks Rosevyr if Jonah paid, which she confirms he didn’t. She doubts she’ll see any money, but says she can probably arrange payment for the crew of [[The Heritage]] for their trouble. They need to consider how to get to the ship, with Jonah’s men in town. She asks about D4, the group saying he’s still on the ship, and that Jonah likely doesn’t know about him. He does know about the airship, which Rosevyr says she told him. Galen asks what they think he’s going to do, the group agreeing the best idea is to probably get to the ship and run. “He did seem to want me dead for just knowing a bit of what you do, reading out a letter. Let’s assume he wants to do you harm,” Rosevyr says, offering to let them out back, but they are still in the middle of the market square. Beck asks if she has a way out, Rosevyr saying she can stay with one of her sisters. One of Rosevyr’s girls suggests they pretend she’s dead, at least helping to keep Jonah off the scent for a while.

Galen asks if anyone minds him taking the bullets, Beck taking Jonah’s gun, although he says he doesn’t want to use it. Galen starts to ask what else he would want it for, before cutting himself off and saying they need to focus on getting to the airship. Galen suggests he can take them through the back alleys, but they need to cross the market first, which is very open. After that, they should be able to reach the cliffs and head over to where they left the ship. Beck suggests that he has a disguise kit, and there’s likely some clothes they can borrow from Rosevyr. Petr says he can wildshape into something else, and Beck can change himself, but Jonah knows he can do that. It’s likely best to move quickly before he has time to send a full assault after them.

Getting to work, Beck does his best to disguise the party, applying makeup to himself as well as Galen and Rydia, pointedly buttoning up Galen’s shirt in an effort to make him look less like himself. The Captain puts on a dress, commenting that she feels highly uncomfortable in all this. Keeping their armour on, the group are as prepared as they can be. Petr turns into a hamster, finding a place under Beck’s hat as they get ready to leave.

Heading out the back door, they find themselves in the market square, the sun high in the sky. As they head out, Rydia figures out Jonah is likely at the Golden Dragon Inn. Heading across the square, they manage to blend in as they head towards the cliffs, Galen noticing a figure in black with a rifle on the top ridge of one of the cliffs, watching the town. Moving further through Gatherhold, they opt for the fastest route back to the ship. Beck relays some information on House Cannith as they travel, Galen noting that all of this is odd anyway. Dragonmarked houses don’t have soldiers, or this much private security, meaning the number of people Jonah has at his disposal is unusual.

Moving away from the group, Galen sticks to the shadows, noticing some construct dogs looking in the direction of the rest of the party, one of them with a white eye that specifically seems to be staring at Beck. Beck spots them as well, recognising them as House Cannith constructs, but the white eye is new. Realising they’ve been spotted, Petr drops his wild shape, which immediately draws more attention. Spotting this, Galen takes a shot at the white eye on the construct, part of the jaw shattering with the impact as Galen shouts at the others to run.

Following the suggestion, the group begin to flee, firing attacks at the two constructs as they do so, Petr managing to destroy one as they do. Trying to catch up with the group, Galen finds himself under attack from two more that emerge, although he manages to get ahead of them before they can do too much damage. Deflecting the worst of the attacks, Galen stretches out in front, leading the way up the cliffs in an effort to try and reach the airship. The group manage to destroy the constructs as they run, however find themselves under attack from another source as a shot rings out, a bullet piercing Petr in the back of the shoulder as everyone notices the man at the top of the ridge, now firing the rifle in their direction from a distance. Pulling out his horn, Beck tries to signal D4 on the airship, but the sound doesn’t seem to carry far enough to attract any attention. The man on the ridge begins reloading the rifle, tracking the party slowly as they manage to get rid of the last of the constructs, reaching the top of the cliff and making their way towards the airship they can see nearby.

As they crest the ridge, Galen spots two warforged on the deck of the airship, meaning their escape route likely isn’t clear. Rydia fires an Eldritch Blast at the man in black, hitting him in the shoulder and distracting him from reloading as they reach the edge of the cliff and disappear out of sight. A few more shots go wide as he saunters towards the group, disappearing out of sight as they reach a vantage point on the ship, seeing the two warforged on the ship are carrying a net. Inside are the deconstructed parts of D4, torn apart and being taken away from the ship

Looking down to the ship, the anchor is dropped into a crevasse, an old House Orien service station lying at the bottom of the valley, although it is long since abandoned. In the station, the group can see four humanoid figures. Three appear to have prosthetics, gleaming golden in the sun, an arm and leg replaced by metallic constructions. Galen recognises the Karnathi military uniforms, katanas slung over their backs. These appear to be war veterans, outfitted by House Cannith to get them able to fight again. They’re joined by a figure in a black robe, trimmed in gold with a golden skull embroidered into the back of the robe. She has pale skin, and her hood is up, hiding most of her face.

The group in the service station are looking up towards the cliff, attention drawn by the sounds of a fight. However the group hang back on the ridge, staying out of sight for now. The anchor is down, but doesn’t seem to be impeded, and the ladder is still raised, meaning the group will need to find a way to get onto the ship. The ship is close enough to the ridge to be jumpable, Beck saying they need to get on board. Galen asks what the plan is, which they surmise that getting on the ship and getting out of Gatherhold is all they have to go on. Beck says he’d like to leave with D4 on the ship.

They assess their options, debating as to whether they can jump, Beck suggesting they could raise the anchor and ride it up to the ship. As they discuss their options, Petr and Galen both notice two of the Karnathi veterans beginning to shut one of the crates, that contains a massive dragonshard, the kind that would be needed to drive the engine of an airship. “I think we might have another problem,” Galen points out, Petr agreeing they probably need that. Without the dragonshard, the ship won’t be able to power itself, purely dependent on the wind and the soarwood.

Assessing the situation, the Captain suggests hiding in town for a while to get their bearings, coming back to find another way to get the ship back. Outnumbered and with the rifleman approaching, they don’t have a lot of options for actually getting to the ship in one piece. Hesitating for a moment, Galen says he understands he’s been something of a poor guest recently, and he was hoping to apologise in a slightly nicer setting. “I’m going to have to apologise and ask you to do something - do you trust me?” After a slightly hesitant agreement from the Captain and Beck, Galen nods. “I think I can get rid of the Karnathis.”

Both Beck and the Captain ask him how he intends to do that, Galen reaching into his jacket and pulling out the golden pocket watch he took from Mortem Pent. Fianin recognises the golden skull to match the one on the cloak of the woman in the service station, who has now lowered her hood. Looking over, she is an extremely pale elf, wearing what appears to be a ballgown, dressed exceptionally well for the location. Galen recognises her, knowing she has a meeting with someone he knows, as she came to discuss the Tome and the progress she was making. The two were on good terms, and Galen recalls she had some severe cuts on her arms, row after row of scars lining her skin. He also manages to recall her name - Lady Dahlia.

“You think you can get rid of her?” Beck asks, Galen admitting it’s something of a gamble. Beck offers to help, but Galen explains this is something he has to do on his own. However if it doesn’t end well, there’s a good choice that it might end in a fight. The group suggest they could stay close and say nothing, but Galen seems reluctant to accept. The Captain points out they should at least agree on a rendezvous, just in case things go wrong. She suggests Orryn’s, given he likely wouldn’t want House Cannith finding a set of stolen warforged in his basement. Galen agrees, suggesting the warehouse might be a good place to head for if need be.

As they discuss this, the two warforged drop the net containing what’s left of D4 to the ground, one of the veterans beginning to carry him away to where the dragonshard is. Galen takes a look at the group, asking if they’re sure about this. With no certainty and no better options, Beck wishes him luck as Galen begins to make his way down the cliff, managing to stay out of sight of the group in the service station as he approaches from underneath the airship. Noticing him as he gets closer, the veterans begin to reach for their pistols as Lady Dahlia stares at Galen as he approaches. She asks him to state his business, and Galen comes to a stop.

“It’s been a while since we had the pleasure, Lady Dahlia.” She asks if she should know him, Galen explaining that he was doing some work for Ophelia Vidante, which immediately causes her to warm up a little. She says she doesn’t recognise him from the organisation, which Galen dismisses, saying it was some time ago and a brief meeting, not expecting Lady Dahlia to remember him. “I see you seem to have confiscated my ride,” he says, Dahlia asking if the airship is his. Galen says it’s something he’s making use of for now. “Our patron told us the ship was illegal salvage from House Lyrandar, which was also possibly used to smuggle derelict warforged recently. Do you know anything about that?” Galen doesn’t deny it, saying that all of that may be true, but all the same, he’s making use of the ship. “I don’t think Lady Vidante would be too pleased if you were to stop me from what I’m doing,” Galen suggests.

Lady Dahlia looks at him in confusion, pausing for a moment. “It doesn’t make sense. I thought we had an agreement we’d talk more openly about all the schemes and plans we had among each other. It’s quite curious.” She asks him to give her a moment as she turns away, reaching for the stone of one of the rings she’s wearing. As she does so, she addresses Mr d’Cannith, asking how important it is that they clean up the airship - she heard trouble in town. “There might be some business with the Sanguine Council that supercedes our mission for the House.” Unable to hear the other side of the conversation, she eventually looks back to Galen, asking where the rest are. He tells her they’re up on the cliff, waiting for him to get their ship back.

She stops for a long moment, looking Galen over once more. “I’m going to be checking in with Lady Ophelia quite soon. If any of this is just some deceit, I will make it my personal mission to end each and every one of you.” She then whistles, the two warforged on deck using their jetpacks to reach the ground. She then tells the Karnathi veterans to return to the train, telling them they have other work to do. As she begins to leave, Galen pulls out the pocket watch. “You can tell her Galen D’Arcy sends her his regards.” Dahlia’s eyes land on the pocket watch. “I see. It’s a good thing I kept you alive.” She then starts to walk away, the veterans following behind her.

Watching all of this from the ridge, Petr and Beck notice the silhouette of the man in black moving closer to the group. The veterans leave, however the dragonshard and D4 are left in the service station, below the ship. Taking the opportunity, Beck starts to eye up jumping to the ship, Rydia offering to jump on as well, or go and have a word with the man in black. Beck makes the jump to the ship, beginning to climb onboard, soon followed by Petr.

Rifle in hand, the man in black is still approaching, Rydia keeping an eye on him in case he begins firing again. Beck drops the ladder to the ship, before lowering it down a little, Galen moving to retrieve the dragonshard and begin climbing on deck with the shard. Petr moves to the ship as the Captain waits. The man in black gets closer, beginning to draw his rifle. Rydia immediately reacts, running straight up to him as the Captain asks what she’s doing. She takes a shot at him as the man lashes out at Rydia to try and get her out of the way, hitting her with an elbow to the face. He then takes a shot at Fianin, who falls to the ground with the impact, lying prone on the ground.

In response, for the first time Rydia embraces a little of what she is, the maw widening as her many eyes begin blinking wildly, more tentacles emerging and all aimed at the man in black. Up close and personally, she telepathically tells him “when we have more time I’ll be having you for dinner.” The tentacles wrap around the rifle, attempting to disarm him. Eyes full of fear, he stumbles back a little with a ‘what the fuck’, but manages to keep hold of the rifle. Meanwhile the Captain begins to get to her feet, pulling herself out of the dust. The man in black looks at Rydia once more before turning and beginning to run. As he does so, Rydia messages him again with a “Next time” as he flees.

As he runs, he turns the gun on the Captain once more, Fianin screaming at Rydia to run before a bullet hits her in the skull, taking her to the ground. Hearing her scream, Beck runs towards the side of the ship, casting a healing spell on her, which seems to do the job, the Captain moving once more. Beck heads over to the ladder, taking the dragonshard from Galen as he reaches the top of the ladder, Galen quickly sliding back down to grab D4 before beginning to climb once more. Petr heads towards the edge of the ship, hurling another spell at the man in black and ready to help the Captain get on board the Heritage, calling to her to hurry.

Rydia also begins to run for the ship, jumping the gap and using the tentacles to climb aboard, which draws a quick moment of confusion from the Captain, who jumps over and grabs Petr’s hand, hauling herself aboard. The man in black stands for a moment, watching the ship as they climb aboard. Beck rushes to install the dragonshard back in the engine room. Rydia, Petr and the Captain ready attacks in case the man in black tries anything, Galen raising the anchor of the ship under Beck’s instruction. He then moves downstairs to assist Beck with installing the dragonshard.

The man in black drops his rifle, raising his hands and walking towards the ship as it climbs into the air. Rydia blasts the rifle with an Eldritch Blast, shattering it on the ground. Petr calls out to him, asking what he wants with them. “I simply wanted to say one thing,” he explains, the ship climbing as the engine roars to the life, the Heritage gaining some more momentum. “Let go,” he says to Fianin, his words laced with magic. She does so, dropping to the ground, hitting with a thud as she lands unconscious, the ship starting to move away.

Seeing this, Petr turns to Rydia. “Shall we go?” he says, before jumping over the side of the ship with Rydia at his side, casting Feather Fall as he begins to float to the ground. Rydia however, changes her direction, moving towards the man in black on the ridge as Petr lands beside the Captain. Rydia moves up to the man in black, the maw biting into him as he begins to scream out in response.

Meanwhile, Galen and Beck emerge on deck to find the rest of the crew gone. Beck immediately runs to the helm, guiding the ship towards the others. As they do so, Galen notices a rather annoyed looking Dahlia staring at the ship in the distance.